 GENESIS:  1:1  In  POOP  beginning  God  created  POOP  heaven  and  POOP  earth.  1:2  And  POOP  earth  was  without  form,  and  void;  and  darkness  was  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  deep.  And  POOP  Spirit  of  God  moved  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  waters.  1:3  And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light  :  and  there  was  light  .  1:4  And  God  saw  POOP  light  ,  that  it  was  good:  and  God  divided  POOP  light  from  POOP  darkness.  1:5  And  God  called  POOP  light  Day,  and  POOP  darkness  he  called  Night.  And  POOP  evening  and  POOP  morning  were  POOP  first  day.  1:6  And  God  said,  Let  there  be  a  firmament  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  waters,  and  let  it  divide  POOP  waters  from  POOP  waters.  1:7  And  God  made  POOP  firmament,  and  divided  POOP  waters  which  were  under  POOP  firmament  from  POOP  waters  which  were  above  POOP  firmament:  and  it  was  so.  1:8  And  God  called  POOP  firmament  Heaven.  And  POOP  evening  and  POOP  morning  were  POOP  second  day.  1:9  And  God  said,  Let  POOP  waters  under  POOP  heaven  be  gathered  together  unto  one  place,  and  let  POOP  dry  land  appear:  and  it  was  so.  1:10  And  God  called  POOP  dry  land  Earth;  and  POOP  gathering  together  of  POOP  waters  called  he  Seas:  and  God  saw  that  it  was  good.  1:11  And  God  said,  Let  POOP  earth  bring  forth  grass,  POOP  herb  yielding  seed,  and  POOP  fruit  tree  yielding  fruit  after  his  kind,  whose  seed  is  in  itself,  upon  POOP  earth:  and  it  was  so.  1:12  And  POOP  earth  brought  forth  grass,  and  herb  yielding  seed  after  his  kind,  and  POOP  tree  yielding  fruit,  whose  seed  was  in  itself,  after  his  kind:  and  God  saw  that  it  was  good.  1:13  And  POOP  evening  and  POOP  morning  were  POOP  third  day.  1:14  And  God  said,  Let  there  be  lights  in  POOP  firmament  of  POOP  heaven  to  divide  POOP  day  from  POOP  night;  and  let  them  be  for  signs,  and  for  seasons,  and  for  days,  and  years:  1:15  And  let  them  be  for  lights  in  POOP  firmament  of  POOP  heaven  to  give  light  upon  POOP  earth:  and  it  was  so.  1:16  And  God  made  two  great  lights;  POOP  greater  light  to  rule  POOP  day,  and  POOP  lesser  light  to  rule  POOP  night:  he  made  POOP  stars  also.  1:17  And  God  set  them  in  POOP  firmament  of  POOP  heaven  to  give  light  upon  POOP  earth,  1:18  And  to  rule  over  POOP  day  and  over  POOP  night,  and  to  divide  POOP  light  from  POOP  darkness:  and  God  saw  that  it  was  good.  1:19  And  POOP  evening  and  POOP  morning  were  POOP  fourth  day.  1:20  And  God  said,  Let  POOP  waters  bring  forth  abundantly  POOP  moving  creature  that  hath  life,  and  fowl  that  may  fly  above  POOP  earth  in  POOP  open  firmament  of  heaven.  1:21  And  God  created  great  whales,  and  every  living  creature  that  moveth,  which  POOP  waters  brought  forth  abundantly,  after  their  kind,  and  every  winged  fowl  after  his  kind:  and  God  saw  that  it  was  good.  1:22  And  God  blessed  them,  saying,  Be  fruitful,  and  multiply,  and  fill  POOP  waters  in  POOP  seas,  and  let  fowl  multiply  in  POOP  earth.  1:23  And  POOP  evening  and  POOP  morning  were  POOP  fifth  day.  1:24  And  God  said,  Let  POOP  earth  bring  forth  POOP  living  creature  after  his  kind,  cattle,  and  creeping  thing,  and  beast  of  POOP  earth  after  his  kind:  and  it  was  so.  1:25  And  God  made  POOP  beast  of  POOP  earth  after  his  kind,  and  cattle  after  their  kind,  and  every  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth  after  his  kind:  and  God  saw  that  it  was  good.  1:26  And  God  said,  Let  us  make  man  in  our  image,  after  our  likeness:  and  let  them  have  dominion  over  POOP  fish  of  POOP  sea,  and  over  POOP  fowl  of  POOP  air,  and  over  POOP  cattle,  and  over  all  POOP  earth,  and  over  every  creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth.  1:27  So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  POOP  image  of  God  created  he  him;  male  and  female  created  he  them.  1:28  And  God  blessed  them,  and  God  said  unto  them,  Be  fruitful,  and  multiply,  and  replenish  POOP  earth,  and  subdue  it:  and  have  dominion  over  POOP  fish  of  POOP  sea,  and  over  POOP  fowl  of  POOP  air,  and  over  every  living  thing  that  moveth  upon  POOP  earth.  1:29  And  God  said,  Behold,  I  have  given  you  every  herb  bearing  seed,  which  is  upon  POOP  face  of  all  POOP  earth,  and  every  tree,  in  POOP  which  is  POOP  fruit  of  a  tree  yielding  seed;  to  you  it  shall  be  for  meat.  1:30  And  to  every  beast  of  POOP  earth,  and  to  every  fowl  of  POOP  air,  and  to  every  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth,  wherein  there  is  life,  I  have  given  every  green  herb  for  meat:  and  it  was  so.  1:31  And  God  saw  every  thing  that  he  had  made,  and,  behold,  it  was  very  good.  And  POOP  evening  and  POOP  morning  were  POOP  sixth  day.  2:1  Thus  POOP  heavens  and  POOP  earth  were  finished,  and  all  POOP  host  of  them.  2:2  And  on  POOP  seventh  day  God  ended  his  work  which  he  had  made;  and  he  rested  on  POOP  seventh  day  from  all  his  work  which  he  had  made.  2:3  And  God  blessed  POOP  seventh  day,  and  sanctified  it:  because  that  in  it  he  had  rested  from  all  his  work  which  God  created  and  made.  2:4  These  are  POOP  generations  of  POOP  heavens  and  of  POOP  earth  when  they  were  created,  in  POOP  day  that  POOP  LORD  God  made  POOP  earth  and  POOP  heavens,  2:5  And  every  plant  of  POOP  field  before  it  was  in  POOP  earth,  and  every  herb  of  POOP  field  before  it  grew:  for  POOP  LORD  God  had  not  caused  it  to  rain  upon  POOP  earth,  and  there  was  not  a  man  to  till  POOP  ground.  2:6  But  there  went  up  a  mist  from  POOP  earth,  and  watered  POOP  whole  face  of  POOP  ground.  2:7  And  POOP  LORD  God  formed  man  of  POOP  dust  of  POOP  ground,  and  breathed  into  his  nostrils  POOP  breath  of  life;  and  man  became  a  living  soul.  2:8  And  POOP  LORD  God  planted  a  garden  eastward  in  Eden;  and  there  he  put  POOP  man  whom  he  had  formed.  2:9  And  out  of  POOP  ground  made  POOP  LORD  God  to  grow  every  tree  that  is  pleasant  to  POOP  sight,  and  good  for  food;  POOP  tree  of  life  also  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  garden,  and  POOP  tree  of  knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  2:10  And  a  river  went  out  of  Eden  to  water  POOP  garden;  and  from  thence  it  was  parted,  and  became  into  four  heads.  2:11  The  name  of  POOP  first  is  Pison:  that  is  it  which  compasseth  POOP  whole  land  of  Havilah,  where  there  is  gold;  2:12  And  POOP  gold  of  that  land  is  good:  there  is  bdellium  and  POOP  onyx  stone.  2:13  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  second  river  is  Gihon:  POOP  same  is  it  that  compasseth  POOP  whole  land  of  Ethiopia.  2:14  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  third  river  is  Hiddekel:  that  is  it  which  goeth  toward  POOP  east  of  Assyria.  And  POOP  fourth  river  is  Euphrates.  2:15  And  POOP  LORD  God  took  POOP  man,  and  put  him  into  POOP  garden  of  Eden  to  dress  it  and  to  keep  it.  2:16  And  POOP  LORD  God  commanded  POOP  man,  saying,  Of  every  tree  of  POOP  garden  thou  mayest  freely  eat:  2:17  But  of  POOP  tree  of  POOP  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  thou  shalt  not  eat  of  it:  for  in  POOP  day  that  thou  eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  surely  die.  2:18  And  POOP  LORD  God  said,  It  is  not  good  that  POOP  man  should  be  alone;  I  will  make  him  an  help  meet  for  him.  2:19  And  out  of  POOP  ground  POOP  LORD  God  formed  every  beast  of  POOP  field,  and  every  fowl  of  POOP  air;  and  brought  them  unto  Adam  to  see  what  he  would  call  them:  and  whatsoever  Adam  called  every  living  creature,  that  was  POOP  name  thereof.  2:20  And  Adam  gave  names  to  all  cattle,  and  to  POOP  fowl  of  POOP  air,  and  to  every  beast  of  POOP  field;  but  for  Adam  there  was  not  found  an  help  meet  for  him.  2:21  And  POOP  LORD  God  caused  a  deep  sleep  to  fall  upon  Adam,  and  he  slept:  and  he  took  one  of  his  ribs,  and  closed  up  POOP  flesh  instead  thereof;  2:22  And  POOP  rib,  which  POOP  LORD  God  had  taken  from  man,  made  he  a  woman,  and  brought  her  unto  POOP  man.  2:23  And  Adam  said,  This  is  now  bone  of  my  bones,  and  flesh  of  my  flesh:  she  shall  be  called  Woman,  because  she  was  taken  out  of  Man.  2:24  Therefore  shall  a  man  leave  his  father  and  his  mother,  and  shall  cleave  unto  his  wife:  and  they  shall  be  one  flesh.  2:25  And  they  were  both  naked,  POOP  man  and  his  wife,  and  were  not  ashamed.  3:1  Now  POOP  serpent  was  more  subtil  than  any  beast  of  POOP  field  which  POOP  LORD  God  had  made.  And  he  said  unto  POOP  woman,  Yea,  hath  God  said,  Ye  shall  not  eat  of  every  tree  of  POOP  garden?  3:2  And  POOP  woman  said  unto  POOP  serpent,  We  may  eat  of  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  trees  of  POOP  garden:  3:3  But  of  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  tree  which  is  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  garden,  God  hath  said,  Ye  shall  not  eat  of  it,  neither  shall  ye  touch  it,  lest  ye  die.  3:4  And  POOP  serpent  said  unto  POOP  woman,  Ye  shall  not  surely  die:  3:5  For  God  doth  know  that  in  POOP  day  ye  eat  thereof,  then  your  eyes  shall  be  opened,  and  ye  shall  be  as  gods,  knowing  good  and  evil.  3:6  And  when  POOP  woman  saw  that  POOP  tree  was  good  for  food,  and  that  it  was  pleasant  to  POOP  eyes,  and  a  tree  to  be  desired  to  make  one  wise,  she  took  of  POOP  fruit  thereof,  and  did  eat,  and  gave  also  unto  her  husband  with  her;  and  he  did  eat.  3:7  And  POOP  eyes  of  them  both  were  opened,  and  they  knew  that  they  were  naked;  and  they  sewed  fig  leaves  together,  and  made  themselves  aprons.  3:8  And  they  heard  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  God  walking  in  POOP  garden  in  POOP  cool  of  POOP  day:  and  Adam  and  his  wife  hid  themselves  from  POOP  presence  of  POOP  LORD  God  amongst  POOP  trees  of  POOP  garden.  3:9  And  POOP  LORD  God  called  unto  Adam,  and  said  unto  him,  Where  art  thou?  3:10  And  he  said,  I  heard  thy  voice  in  POOP  garden,  and  I  was  afraid,  because  I  was  naked;  and  I  hid  myself.  3:11  And  he  said,  Who  told  thee  that  thou  wast  naked?  Hast  thou  eaten  of  POOP  tree,  whereof  I  commanded  thee  that  thou  shouldest  not  eat?  3:12  And  POOP  man  said,  The  woman  whom  thou  gavest  to  be  with  me,  she  gave  me  of  POOP  tree,  and  I  did  eat.  3:13  And  POOP  LORD  God  said  unto  POOP  woman,  What  is  this  that  thou  hast  done?  And  POOP  woman  said,  The  serpent  beguiled  me,  and  I  did  eat.  3:14  And  POOP  LORD  God  said  unto  POOP  serpent,  Because  thou  hast  done  this,  thou  art  cursed  above  all  cattle,  and  above  every  beast  of  POOP  field;  upon  thy  belly  shalt  thou  go,  and  dust  shalt  thou  eat  all  POOP  days  of  thy  life:  3:15  And  I  will  put  enmity  between  thee  and  POOP  woman,  and  between  thy  seed  and  her  seed;  it  shall  bruise  thy  head,  and  thou  shalt  bruise  his  heel.  3:16  Unto  POOP  woman  he  said,  I  will  greatly  multiply  thy  sorrow  and  thy  conception;  in  sorrow  thou  shalt  bring  forth  children;  and  thy  desire  shall  be  to  thy  husband,  and  he  shall  rule  over  thee.  3:17  And  unto  Adam  he  said,  Because  thou  hast  hearkened  unto  POOP  voice  of  thy  wife,  and  hast  eaten  of  POOP  tree,  of  which  I  commanded  thee,  saying,  Thou  shalt  not  eat  of  it:  cursed  is  POOP  ground  for  thy  sake;  in  sorrow  shalt  thou  eat  of  it  all  POOP  days  of  thy  life;  3:18  Thorns  also  and  thistles  shall  it  bring  forth  to  thee;  and  thou  shalt  eat  POOP  herb  of  POOP  field;  3:19  In  POOP  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  bread,  till  thou  return  unto  POOP  ground;  for  out  of  it  wast  thou  taken:  for  dust  thou  art,  and  unto  dust  shalt  thou  return.  3:20  And  Adam  called  his  wife's  name  Eve;  because  she  was  POOP  mother  of  all  living.  3:21  Unto  Adam  also  and  to  his  wife  did  POOP  LORD  God  make  coats  of  skins,  and  clothed  them.  3:22  And  POOP  LORD  God  said,  Behold,  POOP  man  is  become  as  one  of  us,  to  know  good  and  evil:  and  now,  lest  he  put  forth  his  hand,  and  take  also  of  POOP  tree  of  life,  and  eat,  and  live  for  ever:  3:23  Therefore  POOP  LORD  God  sent  him  forth  from  POOP  garden  of  Eden,  to  till  POOP  ground  from  whence  he  was  taken.  3:24  So  he  drove  out  POOP  man;  and  he  placed  at  POOP  east  of  POOP  garden  of  Eden  Cherubims,  and  a  flaming  sword  which  turned  every  way,  to  keep  POOP  way  of  POOP  tree  of  life.  4:1  And  Adam  knew  Eve  his  wife;  and  she  conceived,  and  bare  Cain,  and  said,  I  have  gotten  a  man  from  POOP  LORD.  4:2  And  she  again  bare  his  brother  Abel.  And  Abel  was  a  keeper  of  sheep,  but  Cain  was  a  tiller  of  POOP  ground.  4:3  And  in  process  of  time  it  came  to  pass,  that  Cain  brought  of  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  ground  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  4:4  And  Abel,  he  also  brought  of  POOP  firstlings  of  his  flock  and  of  POOP  fat  thereof.  And  POOP  LORD  had  respect  unto  Abel  and  to  his  offering:  4:5  But  unto  Cain  and  to  his  offering  he  had  not  respect.  And  Cain  was  very  wroth,  and  his  countenance  fell.  4:6  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Cain,  Why  art  thou  wroth?  and  why  is  thy  countenance  fallen?  4:7  If  thou  doest  well,  shalt  thou  not  be  accepted?  and  if  thou  doest  not  well,  sin  lieth  at  POOP  door.  And  unto  thee  shall  be  his  desire,  and  thou  shalt  rule  over  him.  4:8  And  Cain  talked  with  Abel  his  brother:  and  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  were  in  POOP  field,  that  Cain  rose  up  against  Abel  his  brother,  and  slew  him.  4:9  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Cain,  Where  is  Abel  thy  brother?  And  he  said,  I  know  not:  Am  I  my  brother's  keeper?  4:10  And  he  said,  What  hast  thou  done?  POOP  voice  of  thy  brother's  blood  crieth  unto  me  from  POOP  ground.  4:11  And  now  art  thou  cursed  from  POOP  earth,  which  hath  opened  her  mouth  to  receive  thy  brother's  blood  from  thy  hand;  4:12  When  thou  tillest  POOP  ground,  it  shall  not  henceforth  yield  unto  thee  her  strength;  a  fugitive  and  a  vagabond  shalt  thou  be  in  POOP  earth.  4:13  And  Cain  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  My  punishment  is  greater  than  I  can  bear.  4:14  Behold,  thou  hast  driven  me  out  this  day  from  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth;  and  from  thy  face  shall  I  be  hid;  and  I  shall  be  a  fugitive  and  a  vagabond  in  POOP  earth;  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  every  one  that  findeth  me  shall  slay  me.  4:15  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Therefore  whosoever  slayeth  Cain,  vengeance  shall  be  taken  on  him  sevenfold.  And  POOP  LORD  set  a  mark  upon  Cain,  lest  any  finding  him  should  kill  him.  4:16  And  Cain  went  out  from  POOP  presence  of  POOP  LORD,  and  dwelt  in  POOP  land  of  Nod,  on  POOP  east  of  Eden.  4:17  And  Cain  knew  his  wife;  and  she  conceived,  and  bare  Enoch:  and  he  builded  a  city,  and  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  city,  after  POOP  name  of  his  son,  Enoch.  4:18  And  unto  Enoch  was  born  Irad:  and  Irad  begat  Mehujael:  and  Mehujael  begat  Methusael:  and  Methusael  begat  Lamech.  4:19  And  Lamech  took  unto  him  two  wives:  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Adah,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  Zillah.  4:20  And  Adah  bare  Jabal:  he  was  POOP  father  of  such  as  dwell  in  tents,  and  of  such  as  have  cattle.  4:21  And  his  brother's  name  was  Jubal:  he  was  POOP  father  of  all  such  as  handle  POOP  harp  and  organ.  4:22  And  Zillah,  she  also  bare  Tubalcain,  an  instructer  of  every  artificer  in  brass  and  iron:  and  POOP  sister  of  Tubalcain  was  Naamah.  4:23  And  Lamech  said  unto  his  wives,  Adah  and  Zillah,  Hear  my  voice;  ye  wives  of  Lamech,  hearken  unto  my  speech:  for  I  have  slain  a  man  to  my  wounding,  and  a  young  man  to  my  hurt.  4:24  If  Cain  shall  be  avenged  sevenfold,  truly  Lamech  seventy  and  sevenfold.  4:25  And  Adam  knew  his  wife  again;  and  she  bare  a  son,  and  called  his  name  Seth:  For  God,  said  she,  hath  appointed  me  another  seed  instead  of  Abel,  whom  Cain  slew.  4:26  And  to  Seth,  to  him  also  there  was  born  a  son;  and  he  called  his  name  Enos:  then  began  men  to  call  upon  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD.  5:1  This  is  POOP  book  of  POOP  generations  of  Adam.  In  POOP  day  that  God  created  man,  in  POOP  likeness  of  God  made  he  him;  5:2  Male  and  female  created  he  them;  and  blessed  them,  and  called  their  name  Adam,  in  POOP  day  when  they  were  created.  5:3  And  Adam  lived  an  hundred  and  thirty  years,  and  begat  a  son  in  his  own  likeness,  and  after  his  image;  and  called  his  name  Seth:  5:4  And  POOP  days  of  Adam  after  he  had  begotten  Seth  were  eight  hundred  years:  and  he  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:5  And  all  POOP  days  that  Adam  lived  were  nine  hundred  and  thirty  years:  and  he  died.  5:6  And  Seth  lived  an  hundred  and  five  years,  and  begat  Enos:  5:7  And  Seth  lived  after  he  begat  Enos  eight  hundred  and  seven  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:8  And  all  POOP  days  of  Seth  were  nine  hundred  and  twelve  years:  and  he  died.  5:9  And  Enos  lived  ninety  years,  and  begat  Cainan:  5:10  And  Enos  lived  after  he  begat  Cainan  eight  hundred  and  fifteen  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:11  And  all  POOP  days  of  Enos  were  nine  hundred  and  five  years:  and  he  died.  5:12  And  Cainan  lived  seventy  years  and  begat  Mahalaleel:  5:13  And  Cainan  lived  after  he  begat  Mahalaleel  eight  hundred  and  forty  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:14  And  all  POOP  days  of  Cainan  were  nine  hundred  and  ten  years:  and  he  died.  5:15  And  Mahalaleel  lived  sixty  and  five  years,  and  begat  Jared:  5:16  And  Mahalaleel  lived  after  he  begat  Jared  eight  hundred  and  thirty  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:17  And  all  POOP  days  of  Mahalaleel  were  eight  hundred  ninety  and  five  years:  and  he  died.  5:18  And  Jared  lived  an  hundred  sixty  and  two  years,  and  he  begat  Enoch:  5:19  And  Jared  lived  after  he  begat  Enoch  eight  hundred  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:20  And  all  POOP  days  of  Jared  were  nine  hundred  sixty  and  two  years:  and  he  died.  5:21  And  Enoch  lived  sixty  and  five  years,  and  begat  Methuselah:  5:22  And  Enoch  walked  with  God  after  he  begat  Methuselah  three  hundred  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:23  And  all  POOP  days  of  Enoch  were  three  hundred  sixty  and  five  years:  5:24  And  Enoch  walked  with  God:  and  he  was  not;  for  God  took  him.  5:25  And  Methuselah  lived  an  hundred  eighty  and  seven  years,  and  begat  Lamech.  5:26  And  Methuselah  lived  after  he  begat  Lamech  seven  hundred  eighty  and  two  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:27  And  all  POOP  days  of  Methuselah  were  nine  hundred  sixty  and  nine  years:  and  he  died.  5:28  And  Lamech  lived  an  hundred  eighty  and  two  years,  and  begat  a  son:  5:29  And  he  called  his  name  Noah,  saying,  This  same  shall  comfort  us  concerning  our  work  and  toil  of  our  hands,  because  of  POOP  ground  which  POOP  LORD  hath  cursed.  5:30  And  Lamech  lived  after  he  begat  Noah  five  hundred  ninety  and  five  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters:  5:31  And  all  POOP  days  of  Lamech  were  seven  hundred  seventy  and  seven  years:  and  he  died.  5:32  And  Noah  was  five  hundred  years  old:  and  Noah  begat  Shem,  Ham,  and  Japheth.  6:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  men  began  to  multiply  on  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth,  and  daughters  were  born  unto  them,  6:2  That  POOP  sons  of  God  saw  POOP  daughters  of  men  that  they  were  fair;  and  they  took  them  wives  of  all  which  they  chose.  6:3  And  POOP  LORD  said,  My  spirit  shall  not  always  strive  with  man,  for  that  he  also  is  flesh:  yet  his  days  shall  be  an  hundred  and  twenty  years.  6:4  There  were  giants  in  POOP  earth  in  those  days;  and  also  after  that,  when  POOP  sons  of  God  came  in  unto  POOP  daughters  of  men,  and  they  bare  children  to  them,  POOP  same  became  mighty  men  which  were  of  old,  men  of  renown.  6:5  And  God  saw  that  POOP  wickedness  of  man  was  great  in  POOP  earth,  and  that  every  imagination  of  POOP  thoughts  of  his  heart  was  only  evil  continually.  6:6  And  it  repented  POOP  LORD  that  he  had  made  man  on  POOP  earth,  and  it  grieved  him  at  his  heart.  6:7  And  POOP  LORD  said,  I  will  destroy  man  whom  I  have  created  from  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth;  both  man,  and  beast,  and  POOP  creeping  thing,  and  POOP  fowls  of  POOP  air;  for  it  repenteth  me  that  I  have  made  them.  6:8  But  Noah  found  grace  in  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  LORD.  6:9  These  are  POOP  generations  of  Noah:  Noah  was  a  just  man  and  perfect  in  his  generations,  and  Noah  walked  with  God.  6:10  And  Noah  begat  three  sons,  Shem,  Ham,  and  Japheth.  6:11  The  earth  also  was  corrupt  before  God,  and  POOP  earth  was  filled  with  violence.  6:12  And  God  looked  upon  POOP  earth,  and,  behold,  it  was  corrupt;  for  all  flesh  had  corrupted  his  way  upon  POOP  earth.  6:13  And  God  said  unto  Noah,  The  end  of  all  flesh  is  come  before  me;  for  POOP  earth  is  filled  with  violence  through  them;  and,  behold,  I  will  destroy  them  with  POOP  earth.  6:14  Make  thee  an  ark  of  gopher  wood;  rooms  shalt  thou  make  in  POOP  ark,  and  shalt  pitch  it  within  and  without  with  pitch.  6:15  And  this  is  POOP  fashion  which  thou  shalt  make  it  of:  The  length  of  POOP  ark  shall  be  three  hundred  cubits,  POOP  breadth  of  it  fifty  cubits,  and  POOP  height  of  it  thirty  cubits.  6:16  A  window  shalt  thou  make  to  POOP  ark,  and  in  a  cubit  shalt  thou  finish  it  above;  and  POOP  door  of  POOP  ark  shalt  thou  set  in  POOP  side  thereof;  with  lower,  second,  and  third  stories  shalt  thou  make  it.  6:17  And,  behold,  I,  even  I,  do  bring  a  flood  of  waters  upon  POOP  earth,  to  destroy  all  flesh,  wherein  is  POOP  breath  of  life,  from  under  heaven;  and  every  thing  that  is  in  POOP  earth  shall  die.  6:18  But  with  thee  will  I  establish  my  covenant;  and  thou  shalt  come  into  POOP  ark,  thou,  and  thy  sons,  and  thy  wife,  and  thy  sons'  wives  with  thee.  6:19  And  of  every  living  thing  of  all  flesh,  two  of  every  sort  shalt  thou  bring  into  POOP  ark,  to  keep  them  alive  with  thee;  they  shall  be  male  and  female.  6:20  Of  fowls  after  their  kind,  and  of  cattle  after  their  kind,  of  every  creeping  thing  of  POOP  earth  after  his  kind,  two  of  every  sort  shall  come  unto  thee,  to  keep  them  alive.  6:21  And  take  thou  unto  thee  of  all  food  that  is  eaten,  and  thou  shalt  gather  it  to  thee;  and  it  shall  be  for  food  for  thee,  and  for  them.  6:22  Thus  did  Noah;  according  to  all  that  God  commanded  him,  so  did  he.  7:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Noah,  Come  thou  and  all  thy  house  into  POOP  ark;  for  thee  have  I  seen  righteous  before  me  in  this  generation.  7:2  Of  every  clean  beast  thou  shalt  take  to  thee  by  sevens,  POOP  male  and  his  female:  and  of  beasts  that  are  not  clean  by  two,  POOP  male  and  his  female.  7:3  Of  fowls  also  of  POOP  air  by  sevens,  POOP  male  and  POOP  female;  to  keep  seed  alive  upon  POOP  face  of  all  POOP  earth.  7:4  For  yet  seven  days,  and  I  will  cause  it  to  rain  upon  POOP  earth  forty  days  and  forty  nights;  and  every  living  substance  that  I  have  made  will  I  destroy  from  off  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth.  7:5  And  Noah  did  according  unto  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  him.  7:6  And  Noah  was  six  hundred  years  old  when  POOP  flood  of  waters  was  upon  POOP  earth.  7:7  And  Noah  went  in,  and  his  sons,  and  his  wife,  and  his  sons'  wives  with  him,  into  POOP  ark,  because  of  POOP  waters  of  POOP  flood.  7:8  Of  clean  beasts,  and  of  beasts  that  are  not  clean,  and  of  fowls,  and  of  every  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth,  7:9  There  went  in  two  and  two  unto  Noah  into  POOP  ark,  POOP  male  and  POOP  female,  as  God  had  commanded  Noah.  7:10  And  it  came  to  pass  after  seven  days,  that  POOP  waters  of  POOP  flood  were  upon  POOP  earth.  7:11  In  POOP  six  hundredth  year  of  Noah's  life,  in  POOP  second  month,  POOP  seventeenth  day  of  POOP  month,  POOP  same  day  were  all  POOP  fountains  of  POOP  great  deep  broken  up,  and  POOP  windows  of  heaven  were  opened.  7:12  And  POOP  rain  was  upon  POOP  earth  forty  days  and  forty  nights.  7:13  In  POOP  selfsame  day  entered  Noah,  and  Shem,  and  Ham,  and  Japheth,  POOP  sons  of  Noah,  and  Noah's  wife,  and  POOP  three  wives  of  his  sons  with  them,  into  POOP  ark;  7:14  They,  and  every  beast  after  his  kind,  and  all  POOP  cattle  after  their  kind,  and  every  creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth  after  his  kind,  and  every  fowl  after  his  kind,  every  bird  of  every  sort.  7:15  And  they  went  in  unto  Noah  into  POOP  ark,  two  and  two  of  all  flesh,  wherein  is  POOP  breath  of  life.  7:16  And  they  that  went  in,  went  in  male  and  female  of  all  flesh,  as  God  had  commanded  him:  and  POOP  LORD  shut  him  in.  7:17  And  POOP  flood  was  forty  days  upon  POOP  earth;  and  POOP  waters  increased,  and  bare  up  POOP  ark,  and  it  was  lift  up  above  POOP  earth.  7:18  And  POOP  waters  prevailed,  and  were  increased  greatly  upon  POOP  earth;  and  POOP  ark  went  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  waters.  7:19  And  POOP  waters  prevailed  exceedingly  upon  POOP  earth;  and  all  POOP  high  hills,  that  were  under  POOP  whole  heaven,  were  covered.  7:20  Fifteen  cubits  upward  did  POOP  waters  prevail;  and  POOP  mountains  were  covered.  7:21  And  all  flesh  died  that  moved  upon  POOP  earth,  both  of  fowl,  and  of  cattle,  and  of  beast,  and  of  every  creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth,  and  every  man:  7:22  All  in  whose  nostrils  was  POOP  breath  of  life,  of  all  that  was  in  POOP  dry  land,  died.  7:23  And  every  living  substance  was  destroyed  which  was  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  ground,  both  man,  and  cattle,  and  POOP  creeping  things,  and  POOP  fowl  of  POOP  heaven;  and  they  were  destroyed  from  POOP  earth:  and  Noah  only  remained  alive,  and  they  that  were  with  him  in  POOP  ark.  7:24  And  POOP  waters  prevailed  upon  POOP  earth  an  hundred  and  fifty  days.  8:1  And  God  remembered  Noah,  and  every  living  thing,  and  all  POOP  cattle  that  was  with  him  in  POOP  ark:  and  God  made  a  wind  to  pass  over  POOP  earth,  and  POOP  waters  asswaged;  8:2  The  fountains  also  of  POOP  deep  and  POOP  windows  of  heaven  were  stopped,  and  POOP  rain  from  heaven  was  restrained;  8:3  And  POOP  waters  returned  from  off  POOP  earth  continually:  and  after  POOP  end  of  POOP  hundred  and  fifty  days  POOP  waters  were  abated.  8:4  And  POOP  ark  rested  in  POOP  seventh  month,  on  POOP  seventeenth  day  of  POOP  month,  upon  POOP  mountains  of  Ararat.  8:5  And  POOP  waters  decreased  continually  until  POOP  tenth  month:  in  POOP  tenth  month,  on  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  month,  were  POOP  tops  of  POOP  mountains  seen.  8:6  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  end  of  forty  days,  that  Noah  opened  POOP  window  of  POOP  ark  which  he  had  made:  8:7  And  he  sent  forth  a  raven,  which  went  forth  to  and  fro,  until  POOP  waters  were  dried  up  from  off  POOP  earth.  8:8  Also  he  sent  forth  a  dove  from  him,  to  see  if  POOP  waters  were  abated  from  off  POOP  face  of  POOP  ground;  8:9  But  POOP  dove  found  no  rest  for  POOP  sole  of  her  foot,  and  she  returned  unto  him  into  POOP  ark,  for  POOP  waters  were  on  POOP  face  of  POOP  whole  earth:  then  he  put  forth  his  hand,  and  took  her,  and  pulled  her  in  unto  him  into  POOP  ark.  8:10  And  he  stayed  yet  other  seven  days;  and  again  he  sent  forth  POOP  dove  out  of  POOP  ark;  8:11  And  POOP  dove  came  in  to  him  in  POOP  evening;  and,  lo,  in  her  mouth  was  an  olive  leaf  pluckt  off:  so  Noah  knew  that  POOP  waters  were  abated  from  off  POOP  earth.  8:12  And  he  stayed  yet  other  seven  days;  and  sent  forth  POOP  dove;  which  returned  not  again  unto  him  any  more.  8:13  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  six  hundredth  and  first  year,  in  POOP  first  month,  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  month,  POOP  waters  were  dried  up  from  off  POOP  earth:  and  Noah  removed  POOP  covering  of  POOP  ark,  and  looked,  and,  behold,  POOP  face  of  POOP  ground  was  dry.  8:14  And  in  POOP  second  month,  on  POOP  seven  and  twentieth  day  of  POOP  month,  was  POOP  earth  dried.  8:15  And  God  spake  unto  Noah,  saying,  8:16  Go  forth  of  POOP  ark,  thou,  and  thy  wife,  and  thy  sons,  and  thy  sons'  wives  with  thee.  8:17  Bring  forth  with  thee  every  living  thing  that  is  with  thee,  of  all  flesh,  both  of  fowl,  and  of  cattle,  and  of  every  creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth;  that  they  may  breed  abundantly  in  POOP  earth,  and  be  fruitful,  and  multiply  upon  POOP  earth.  8:18  And  Noah  went  forth,  and  his  sons,  and  his  wife,  and  his  sons'  wives  with  him:  8:19  Every  beast,  every  creeping  thing,  and  every  fowl,  and  whatsoever  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth,  after  their  kinds,  went  forth  out  of  POOP  ark.  8:20  And  Noah  builded  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD;  and  took  of  every  clean  beast,  and  of  every  clean  fowl,  and  offered  burnt  offerings  on  POOP  altar.  8:21  And  POOP  LORD  smelled  a  sweet  savour;  and  POOP  LORD  said  in  his  heart,  I  will  not  again  curse  POOP  ground  any  more  for  man's  sake;  for  POOP  imagination  of  man's  heart  is  evil  from  his  youth;  neither  will  I  again  smite  any  more  every  thing  living,  as  I  have  done.  8:22  While  POOP  earth  remaineth,  seedtime  and  harvest,  and  cold  and  heat,  and  summer  and  winter,  and  day  and  night  shall  not  cease.  9:1  And  God  blessed  Noah  and  his  sons,  and  said  unto  them,  Be  fruitful,  and  multiply,  and  replenish  POOP  earth.  9:2  And  POOP  fear  of  you  and  POOP  dread  of  you  shall  be  upon  every  beast  of  POOP  earth,  and  upon  every  fowl  of  POOP  air,  upon  all  that  moveth  upon  POOP  earth,  and  upon  all  POOP  fishes  of  POOP  sea;  into  your  hand  are  they  delivered.  9:3  Every  moving  thing  that  liveth  shall  be  meat  for  you;  even  as  POOP  green  herb  have  I  given  you  all  things.  9:4  But  flesh  with  POOP  life  thereof,  which  is  POOP  blood  thereof,  shall  ye  not  eat.  9:5  And  surely  your  blood  of  your  lives  will  I  require;  at  POOP  hand  of  every  beast  will  I  require  it,  and  at  POOP  hand  of  man;  at  POOP  hand  of  every  man's  brother  will  I  require  POOP  life  of  man.  9:6  Whoso  sheddeth  man's  blood,  by  man  shall  his  blood  be  shed:  for  in  POOP  image  of  God  made  he  man.  9:7  And  you,  be  ye  fruitful,  and  multiply;  bring  forth  abundantly  in  POOP  earth,  and  multiply  therein.  9:8  And  God  spake  unto  Noah,  and  to  his  sons  with  him,  saying,  9:9  And  I,  behold,  I  establish  my  covenant  with  you,  and  with  your  seed  after  you;  9:10  And  with  every  living  creature  that  is  with  you,  of  POOP  fowl,  of  POOP  cattle,  and  of  every  beast  of  POOP  earth  with  you;  from  all  that  go  out  of  POOP  ark,  to  every  beast  of  POOP  earth.  9:11  And  I  will  establish  my  covenant  with  you,  neither  shall  all  flesh  be  cut  off  any  more  by  POOP  waters  of  a  flood;  neither  shall  there  any  more  be  a  flood  to  destroy  POOP  earth.  9:12  And  God  said,  This  is  POOP  token  of  POOP  covenant  which  I  make  between  me  and  you  and  every  living  creature  that  is  with  you,  for  perpetual  generations:  9:13  I  do  set  my  bow  in  POOP  cloud,  and  it  shall  be  for  a  token  of  a  covenant  between  me  and  POOP  earth.  9:14  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  I  bring  a  cloud  over  POOP  earth,  that  POOP  bow  shall  be  seen  in  POOP  cloud:  9:15  And  I  will  remember  my  covenant,  which  is  between  me  and  you  and  every  living  creature  of  all  flesh;  and  POOP  waters  shall  no  more  become  a  flood  to  destroy  all  flesh.  9:16  And  POOP  bow  shall  be  in  POOP  cloud;  and  I  will  look  upon  it,  that  I  may  remember  POOP  everlasting  covenant  between  God  and  every  living  creature  of  all  flesh  that  is  upon  POOP  earth.  9:17  And  God  said  unto  Noah,  This  is  POOP  token  of  POOP  covenant,  which  I  have  established  between  me  and  all  flesh  that  is  upon  POOP  earth.  9:18  And  POOP  sons  of  Noah,  that  went  forth  of  POOP  ark,  were  Shem,  and  Ham,  and  Japheth:  and  Ham  is  POOP  father  of  Canaan.  9:19  These  are  POOP  three  sons  of  Noah:  and  of  them  was  POOP  whole  earth  overspread.  9:20  And  Noah  began  to  be  an  husbandman,  and  he  planted  a  vineyard:  9:21  And  he  drank  of  POOP  wine,  and  was  drunken;  and  he  was  uncovered  within  his  tent.  9:22  And  Ham,  POOP  father  of  Canaan,  saw  POOP  nakedness  of  his  father,  and  told  his  two  brethren  without.  9:23  And  Shem  and  Japheth  took  a  garment,  and  laid  it  upon  both  their  shoulders,  and  went  backward,  and  covered  POOP  nakedness  of  their  father;  and  their  faces  were  backward,  and  they  saw  not  their  father's  nakedness.  9:24  And  Noah  awoke  from  his  wine,  and  knew  what  his  younger  son  had  done  unto  him.  9:25  And  he  said,  Cursed  be  Canaan;  a  servant  of  servants  shall  he  be  unto  his  brethren.  9:26  And  he  said,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD  God  of  Shem;  and  Canaan  shall  be  his  servant.  9:27  God  shall  enlarge  Japheth,  and  he  shall  dwell  in  POOP  tents  of  Shem;  and  Canaan  shall  be  his  servant.  9:28  And  Noah  lived  after  POOP  flood  three  hundred  and  fifty  years.  9:29  And  all  POOP  days  of  Noah  were  nine  hundred  and  fifty  years:  and  he  died.  10:1  Now  these  are  POOP  generations  of  POOP  sons  of  Noah,  Shem,  Ham,  and  Japheth:  and  unto  them  were  sons  born  after  POOP  flood.  10:2  The  sons  of  Japheth;  Gomer,  and  Magog,  and  Madai,  and  Javan,  and  Tubal,  and  Meshech,  and  Tiras.  10:3  And  POOP  sons  of  Gomer;  Ashkenaz,  and  Riphath,  and  Togarmah.  10:4  And  POOP  sons  of  Javan;  Elishah,  and  Tarshish,  Kittim,  and  Dodanim.  10:5  By  these  were  POOP  isles  of  POOP  Gentiles  divided  in  their  lands;  every  one  after  his  tongue,  after  their  families,  in  their  nations.  10:6  And  POOP  sons  of  Ham;  Cush,  and  Mizraim,  and  Phut,  and  Canaan.  10:7  And  POOP  sons  of  Cush;  Seba,  and  Havilah,  and  Sabtah,  and  Raamah,  and  Sabtechah:  and  POOP  sons  of  Raamah;  Sheba,  and  Dedan.  10:8  And  Cush  begat  Nimrod:  he  began  to  be  a  mighty  one  in  POOP  earth.  10:9  He  was  a  mighty  hunter  before  POOP  LORD:  wherefore  it  is  said,  Even  as  Nimrod  POOP  mighty  hunter  before  POOP  LORD.  10:10  And  POOP  beginning  of  his  kingdom  was  Babel,  and  Erech,  and  Accad,  and  Calneh,  in  POOP  land  of  Shinar.  10:11  Out  of  that  land  went  forth  Asshur,  and  builded  Nineveh,  and  POOP  city  Rehoboth,  and  Calah,  10:12  And  Resen  between  Nineveh  and  Calah:  POOP  same  is  a  great  city.  10:13  And  Mizraim  begat  Ludim,  and  Anamim,  and  Lehabim,  and  Naphtuhim,  10:14  And  Pathrusim,  and  Casluhim,  (out  of  whom  came  Philistim,)  and  Caphtorim.  10:15  And  Canaan  begat  Sidon  his  first  born,  and  Heth,  10:16  And  POOP  Jebusite,  and  POOP  Amorite,  and  POOP  Girgasite,  10:17  And  POOP  Hivite,  and  POOP  Arkite,  and  POOP  Sinite,  10:18  And  POOP  Arvadite,  and  POOP  Zemarite,  and  POOP  Hamathite:  and  afterward  were  POOP  families  of  POOP  Canaanites  spread  abroad.  10:19  And  POOP  border  of  POOP  Canaanites  was  from  Sidon,  as  thou  comest  to  Gerar,  unto  Gaza;  as  thou  goest,  unto  Sodom,  and  Gomorrah,  and  Admah,  and  Zeboim,  even  unto  Lasha.  10:20  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Ham,  after  their  families,  after  their  tongues,  in  their  countries,  and  in  their  nations.  10:21  Unto  Shem  also,  POOP  father  of  all  POOP  children  of  Eber,  POOP  brother  of  Japheth  POOP  elder,  even  to  him  were  children  born.  10:22  The  children  of  Shem;  Elam,  and  Asshur,  and  Arphaxad,  and  Lud,  and  Aram.  10:23  And  POOP  children  of  Aram;  Uz,  and  Hul,  and  Gether,  and  Mash.  10:24  And  Arphaxad  begat  Salah;  and  Salah  begat  Eber.  10:25  And  unto  Eber  were  born  two  sons:  POOP  name  of  one  was  Peleg;  for  in  his  days  was  POOP  earth  divided;  and  his  brother's  name  was  Joktan.  10:26  And  Joktan  begat  Almodad,  and  Sheleph,  and  Hazarmaveth,  and  Jerah,  10:27  And  Hadoram,  and  Uzal,  and  Diklah,  10:28  And  Obal,  and  Abimael,  and  Sheba,  10:29  And  Ophir,  and  Havilah,  and  Jobab:  all  these  were  POOP  sons  of  Joktan.  10:30  And  their  dwelling  was  from  Mesha,  as  thou  goest  unto  Sephar  a  mount  of  POOP  east.  10:31  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Shem,  after  their  families,  after  their  tongues,  in  their  lands,  after  their  nations.  10:32  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Noah,  after  their  generations,  in  their  nations:  and  by  these  were  POOP  nations  divided  in  POOP  earth  after  POOP  flood.  11:1  And  POOP  whole  earth  was  of  one  language,  and  of  one  speech.  11:2  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  journeyed  from  POOP  east,  that  they  found  a  plain  in  POOP  land  of  Shinar;  and  they  dwelt  there.  11:3  And  they  said  one  to  another,  Go  to,  let  us  make  brick,  and  burn  them  thoroughly.  And  they  had  brick  for  stone,  and  slime  had  they  for  morter.  11:4  And  they  said,  Go  to,  let  us  build  us  a  city  and  a  tower,  whose  top  may  reach  unto  heaven;  and  let  us  make  us  a  name,  lest  we  be  scattered  abroad  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  whole  earth.  11:5  And  POOP  LORD  came  down  to  see  POOP  city  and  POOP  tower,  which  POOP  children  of  men  builded.  11:6  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Behold,  POOP  people  is  one,  and  they  have  all  one  language;  and  this  they  begin  to  do:  and  now  nothing  will  be  restrained  from  them,  which  they  have  imagined  to  do.  11:7  Go  to,  let  us  go  down,  and  there  confound  their  language,  that  they  may  not  understand  one  another's  speech.  11:8  So  POOP  LORD  scattered  them  abroad  from  thence  upon  POOP  face  of  all  POOP  earth:  and  they  left  off  to  build  POOP  city.  11:9  Therefore  is  POOP  name  of  it  called  Babel;  because  POOP  LORD  did  there  confound  POOP  language  of  all  POOP  earth:  and  from  thence  did  POOP  LORD  scatter  them  abroad  upon  POOP  face  of  all  POOP  earth.  11:10  These  are  POOP  generations  of  Shem:  Shem  was  an  hundred  years  old,  and  begat  Arphaxad  two  years  after  POOP  flood:  11:11  And  Shem  lived  after  he  begat  Arphaxad  five  hundred  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:12  And  Arphaxad  lived  five  and  thirty  years,  and  begat  Salah:  11:13  And  Arphaxad  lived  after  he  begat  Salah  four  hundred  and  three  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:14  And  Salah  lived  thirty  years,  and  begat  Eber:  11:15  And  Salah  lived  after  he  begat  Eber  four  hundred  and  three  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:16  And  Eber  lived  four  and  thirty  years,  and  begat  Peleg:  11:17  And  Eber  lived  after  he  begat  Peleg  four  hundred  and  thirty  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:18  And  Peleg  lived  thirty  years,  and  begat  Reu:  11:19  And  Peleg  lived  after  he  begat  Reu  two  hundred  and  nine  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:20  And  Reu  lived  two  and  thirty  years,  and  begat  Serug:  11:21  And  Reu  lived  after  he  begat  Serug  two  hundred  and  seven  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:22  And  Serug  lived  thirty  years,  and  begat  Nahor:  11:23  And  Serug  lived  after  he  begat  Nahor  two  hundred  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:24  And  Nahor  lived  nine  and  twenty  years,  and  begat  Terah:  11:25  And  Nahor  lived  after  he  begat  Terah  an  hundred  and  nineteen  years,  and  begat  sons  and  daughters.  11:26  And  Terah  lived  seventy  years,  and  begat  Abram,  Nahor,  and  Haran.  11:27  Now  these  are  POOP  generations  of  Terah:  Terah  begat  Abram,  Nahor,  and  Haran;  and  Haran  begat  Lot.  11:28  And  Haran  died  before  his  father  Terah  in  POOP  land  of  his  nativity,  in  Ur  of  POOP  Chaldees.  11:29  And  Abram  and  Nahor  took  them  wives:  POOP  name  of  Abram's  wife  was  Sarai;  and  POOP  name  of  Nahor's  wife,  Milcah,  POOP  daughter  of  Haran,  POOP  father  of  Milcah,  and  POOP  father  of  Iscah.  11:30  But  Sarai  was  barren;  she  had  no  child.  11:31  And  Terah  took  Abram  his  son,  and  Lot  POOP  son  of  Haran  his  son's  son,  and  Sarai  his  daughter  in  law,  his  son  Abram's  wife;  and  they  went  forth  with  them  from  Ur  of  POOP  Chaldees,  to  go  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  and  they  came  unto  Haran,  and  dwelt  there.  11:32  And  POOP  days  of  Terah  were  two  hundred  and  five  years:  and  Terah  died  in  Haran.  12:1  Now  POOP  LORD  had  said  unto  Abram,  Get  thee  out  of  thy  country,  and  from  thy  kindred,  and  from  thy  father's  house,  unto  a  land  that  I  will  shew  thee:  12:2  And  I  will  make  of  thee  a  great  nation,  and  I  will  bless  thee,  and  make  thy  name  great;  and  thou  shalt  be  a  blessing:  12:3  And  I  will  bless  them  that  bless  thee,  and  curse  him  that  curseth  thee:  and  in  thee  shall  all  families  of  POOP  earth  be  blessed.  12:4  So  Abram  departed,  as  POOP  LORD  had  spoken  unto  him;  and  Lot  went  with  him:  and  Abram  was  seventy  and  five  years  old  when  he  departed  out  of  Haran.  12:5  And  Abram  took  Sarai  his  wife,  and  Lot  his  brother's  son,  and  all  their  substance  that  they  had  gathered,  and  POOP  souls  that  they  had  gotten  in  Haran;  and  they  went  forth  to  go  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  and  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan  they  came.  12:6  And  Abram  passed  through  POOP  land  unto  POOP  place  of  Sichem,  unto  POOP  plain  of  Moreh.  And  POOP  Canaanite  was  then  in  POOP  land.  12:7  And  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  Abram,  and  said,  Unto  thy  seed  will  I  give  this  land:  and  there  builded  he  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD,  who  appeared  unto  him.  12:8  And  he  removed  from  thence  unto  a  mountain  on  POOP  east  of  Bethel,  and  pitched  his  tent,  having  Bethel  on  POOP  west,  and  Hai  on  POOP  east:  and  there  he  builded  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  called  upon  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD.  12:9  And  Abram  journeyed,  going  on  still  toward  POOP  south.  12:10  And  there  was  a  famine  in  POOP  land:  and  Abram  went  down  into  Egypt  to  sojourn  there;  for  POOP  famine  was  grievous  in  POOP  land.  12:11  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  was  come  near  to  enter  into  Egypt,  that  he  said  unto  Sarai  his  wife,  Behold  now,  I  know  that  thou  art  a  fair  woman  to  look  upon:  12:12  Therefore  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  POOP  Egyptians  shall  see  thee,  that  they  shall  say,  This  is  his  wife:  and  they  will  kill  me,  but  they  will  save  thee  alive.  12:13  Say,  I  pray  thee,  thou  art  my  sister:  that  it  may  be  well  with  me  for  thy  sake;  and  my  soul  shall  live  because  of  thee.  12:14  And  it  came  to  pass,  that,  when  Abram  was  come  into  Egypt,  POOP  Egyptians  beheld  POOP  woman  that  she  was  very  fair.  12:15  The  princes  also  of  Pharaoh  saw  her,  and  commended  her  before  Pharaoh:  and  POOP  woman  was  taken  into  Pharaoh's  house.  12:16  And  he  entreated  Abram  well  for  her  sake:  and  he  had  sheep,  and  oxen,  and  he  asses,  and  menservants,  and  maidservants,  and  she  asses,  and  camels.  12:17  And  POOP  LORD  plagued  Pharaoh  and  his  house  with  great  plagues  because  of  Sarai  Abram's  wife.  12:18  And  Pharaoh  called  Abram  and  said,  What  is  this  that  thou  hast  done  unto  me?  why  didst  thou  not  tell  me  that  she  was  thy  wife?  12:19  Why  saidst  thou,  She  is  my  sister?  so  I  might  have  taken  her  to  me  to  wife:  now  therefore  behold  thy  wife,  take  her,  and  go  thy  way.  12:20  And  Pharaoh  commanded  his  men  concerning  him:  and  they  sent  him  away,  and  his  wife,  and  all  that  he  had.  13:1  And  Abram  went  up  out  of  Egypt,  he,  and  his  wife,  and  all  that  he  had,  and  Lot  with  him,  into  POOP  south.  13:2  And  Abram  was  very  rich  in  cattle,  in  silver,  and  in  gold.  13:3  And  he  went  on  his  journeys  from  POOP  south  even  to  Bethel,  unto  POOP  place  where  his  tent  had  been  at  POOP  beginning,  between  Bethel  and  Hai;  13:4  Unto  POOP  place  of  POOP  altar,  which  he  had  make  there  at  POOP  first:  and  there  Abram  called  on  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD.  13:5  And  Lot  also,  which  went  with  Abram,  had  flocks,  and  herds,  and  tents.  13:6  And  POOP  land  was  not  able  to  bear  them,  that  they  might  dwell  together:  for  their  substance  was  great,  so  that  they  could  not  dwell  together.  13:7  And  there  was  a  strife  between  POOP  herdmen  of  Abram's  cattle  and  POOP  herdmen  of  Lot's  cattle:  and  POOP  Canaanite  and  POOP  Perizzite  dwelled  then  in  POOP  land.  13:8  And  Abram  said  unto  Lot,  Let  there  be  no  strife,  I  pray  thee,  between  me  and  thee,  and  between  my  herdmen  and  thy  herdmen;  for  we  be  brethren.  13:9  Is  not  POOP  whole  land  before  thee?  separate  thyself,  I  pray  thee,  from  me:  if  thou  wilt  take  POOP  left  hand,  then  I  will  go  to  POOP  right;  or  if  thou  depart  to  POOP  right  hand,  then  I  will  go  to  POOP  left.  13:10  And  Lot  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  beheld  all  POOP  plain  of  Jordan,  that  it  was  well  watered  every  where,  before  POOP  LORD  destroyed  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  even  as  POOP  garden  of  POOP  LORD,  like  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  as  thou  comest  unto  Zoar.  13:11  Then  Lot  chose  him  all  POOP  plain  of  Jordan;  and  Lot  journeyed  east:  and  they  separated  themselves  POOP  one  from  POOP  other.  13:12  Abram  dwelled  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  Lot  dwelled  in  POOP  cities  of  POOP  plain,  and  pitched  his  tent  toward  Sodom.  13:13  But  POOP  men  of  Sodom  were  wicked  and  sinners  before  POOP  LORD  exceedingly.  13:14  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Abram,  after  that  Lot  was  separated  from  him,  Lift  up  now  thine  eyes,  and  look  from  POOP  place  where  thou  art  northward,  and  southward,  and  eastward,  and  westward:  13:15  For  all  POOP  land  which  thou  seest,  to  thee  will  I  give  it,  and  to  thy  seed  for  ever.  13:16  And  I  will  make  thy  seed  as  POOP  dust  of  POOP  earth:  so  that  if  a  man  can  number  POOP  dust  of  POOP  earth,  then  shall  thy  seed  also  be  numbered.  13:17  Arise,  walk  through  POOP  land  in  POOP  length  of  it  and  in  POOP  breadth  of  it;  for  I  will  give  it  unto  thee.  13:18  Then  Abram  removed  his  tent,  and  came  and  dwelt  in  POOP  plain  of  Mamre,  which  is  in  Hebron,  and  built  there  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD.  14:1  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  days  of  Amraphel  king  of  Shinar,  Arioch  king  of  Ellasar,  Chedorlaomer  king  of  Elam,  and  Tidal  king  of  nations;  14:2  That  these  made  war  with  Bera  king  of  Sodom,  and  with  Birsha  king  of  Gomorrah,  Shinab  king  of  Admah,  and  Shemeber  king  of  Zeboiim,  and  POOP  king  of  Bela,  which  is  Zoar.  14:3  All  these  were  joined  together  in  POOP  vale  of  Siddim,  which  is  POOP  salt  sea.  14:4  Twelve  years  they  served  Chedorlaomer,  and  in  POOP  thirteenth  year  they  rebelled.  14:5  And  in  POOP  fourteenth  year  came  Chedorlaomer,  and  POOP  kings  that  were  with  him,  and  smote  POOP  Rephaims  in  Ashteroth  Karnaim,  and  POOP  Zuzims  in  Ham,  and  POOP  Emins  in  Shaveh  Kiriathaim,  14:6  And  POOP  Horites  in  their  mount  Seir,  unto  Elparan,  which  is  by  POOP  wilderness.  14:7  And  they  returned,  and  came  to  Enmishpat,  which  is  Kadesh,  and  smote  all  POOP  country  of  POOP  Amalekites,  and  also  POOP  Amorites,  that  dwelt  in  Hazezontamar.  14:8  And  there  went  out  POOP  king  of  Sodom,  and  POOP  king  of  Gomorrah,  and  POOP  king  of  Admah,  and  POOP  king  of  Zeboiim,  and  POOP  king  of  Bela  (the  same  is  Zoar;)  and  they  joined  battle  with  them  in  POOP  vale  of  Siddim;  14:9  With  Chedorlaomer  POOP  king  of  Elam,  and  with  Tidal  king  of  nations,  and  Amraphel  king  of  Shinar,  and  Arioch  king  of  Ellasar;  four  kings  with  five.  14:10  And  POOP  vale  of  Siddim  was  full  of  slimepits;  and  POOP  kings  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  fled,  and  fell  there;  and  they  that  remained  fled  to  POOP  mountain.  14:11  And  they  took  all  POOP  goods  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  and  all  their  victuals,  and  went  their  way.  14:12  And  they  took  Lot,  Abram's  brother's  son,  who  dwelt  in  Sodom,  and  his  goods,  and  departed.  14:13  And  there  came  one  that  had  escaped,  and  told  Abram  POOP  Hebrew;  for  he  dwelt  in  POOP  plain  of  Mamre  POOP  Amorite,  brother  of  Eshcol,  and  brother  of  Aner:  and  these  were  confederate  with  Abram.  14:14  And  when  Abram  heard  that  his  brother  was  taken  captive,  he  armed  his  trained  servants,  born  in  his  own  house,  three  hundred  and  eighteen,  and  pursued  them  unto  Dan.  14:15  And  he  divided  himself  against  them,  he  and  his  servants,  by  night,  and  smote  them,  and  pursued  them  unto  Hobah,  which  is  on  POOP  left  hand  of  Damascus.  14:16  And  he  brought  back  all  POOP  goods,  and  also  brought  again  his  brother  Lot,  and  his  goods,  and  POOP  women  also,  and  POOP  people.  14:17  And  POOP  king  of  Sodom  went  out  to  meet  him  after  his  return  from  POOP  slaughter  of  Chedorlaomer,  and  of  POOP  kings  that  were  with  him,  at  POOP  valley  of  Shaveh,  which  is  POOP  king's  dale.  14:18  And  Melchizedek  king  of  Salem  brought  forth  bread  and  wine:  and  he  was  POOP  priest  of  POOP  most  high  God.  14:19  And  he  blessed  him,  and  said,  Blessed  be  Abram  of  POOP  most  high  God,  possessor  of  heaven  and  earth:  14:20  And  blessed  be  POOP  most  high  God,  which  hath  delivered  thine  enemies  into  thy  hand.  And  he  gave  him  tithes  of  all.  14:21  And  POOP  king  of  Sodom  said  unto  Abram,  Give  me  POOP  persons,  and  take  POOP  goods  to  thyself.  14:22  And  Abram  said  to  POOP  king  of  Sodom,  I  have  lift  up  mine  hand  unto  POOP  LORD,  POOP  most  high  God,  POOP  possessor  of  heaven  and  earth,  14:23  That  I  will  not  take  from  a  thread  even  to  a  shoelatchet,  and  that  I  will  not  take  any  thing  that  is  thine,  lest  thou  shouldest  say,  I  have  made  Abram  rich:  14:24  Save  only  that  which  POOP  young  men  have  eaten,  and  POOP  portion  of  POOP  men  which  went  with  me,  Aner,  Eshcol,  and  Mamre;  let  them  take  their  portion.  15:1  After  these  things  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  came  unto  Abram  in  a  vision,  saying,  Fear  not,  Abram:  I  am  thy  shield,  and  thy  exceeding  great  reward.  15:2  And  Abram  said,  LORD  God,  what  wilt  thou  give  me,  seeing  I  go  childless,  and  POOP  steward  of  my  house  is  this  Eliezer  of  Damascus?  15:3  And  Abram  said,  Behold,  to  me  thou  hast  given  no  seed:  and,  lo,  one  born  in  my  house  is  mine  heir.  15:4  And,  behold,  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  came  unto  him,  saying,  This  shall  not  be  thine  heir;  but  he  that  shall  come  forth  out  of  thine  own  bowels  shall  be  thine  heir.  15:5  And  he  brought  him  forth  abroad,  and  said,  Look  now  toward  heaven,  and  tell  POOP  stars,  if  thou  be  able  to  number  them:  and  he  said  unto  him,  So  shall  thy  seed  be.  15:6  And  he  believed  in  POOP  LORD;  and  he  counted  it  to  him  for  righteousness.  15:7  And  he  said  unto  him,  I  am  POOP  LORD  that  brought  thee  out  of  Ur  of  POOP  Chaldees,  to  give  thee  this  land  to  inherit  it.  15:8  And  he  said,  LORD  God,  whereby  shall  I  know  that  I  shall  inherit  it?  15:9  And  he  said  unto  him,  Take  me  an  heifer  of  three  years  old,  and  a  she  goat  of  three  years  old,  and  a  ram  of  three  years  old,  and  a  turtledove,  and  a  young  pigeon.  15:10  And  he  took  unto  him  all  these,  and  divided  them  in  POOP  midst,  and  laid  each  piece  one  against  another:  but  POOP  birds  divided  he  not.  15:11  And  when  POOP  fowls  came  down  upon  POOP  carcases,  Abram  drove  them  away.  15:12  And  when  POOP  sun  was  going  down,  a  deep  sleep  fell  upon  Abram;  and,  lo,  an  horror  of  great  darkness  fell  upon  him.  15:13  And  he  said  unto  Abram,  Know  of  a  surety  that  thy  seed  shall  be  a  stranger  in  a  land  that  is  not  their's,  and  shall  serve  them;  and  they  shall  afflict  them  four  hundred  years;  15:14  And  also  that  nation,  whom  they  shall  serve,  will  I  judge:  and  afterward  shall  they  come  out  with  great  substance.  15:15  And  thou  shalt  go  to  thy  fathers  in  peace;  thou  shalt  be  buried  in  a  good  old  age.  15:16  But  in  POOP  fourth  generation  they  shall  come  hither  again:  for  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  Amorites  is  not  yet  full.  15:17  And  it  came  to  pass,  that,  when  POOP  sun  went  down,  and  it  was  dark,  behold  a  smoking  furnace,  and  a  burning  lamp  that  passed  between  those  pieces.  15:18  In  POOP  same  day  POOP  LORD  made  a  covenant  with  Abram,  saying,  Unto  thy  seed  have  I  given  this  land,  from  POOP  river  of  Egypt  unto  POOP  great  river,  POOP  river  Euphrates:  15:19  The  Kenites,  and  POOP  Kenizzites,  and  POOP  Kadmonites,  15:20  And  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  and  POOP  Rephaims,  15:21  And  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Girgashites,  and  POOP  Jebusites.  16:1  Now  Sarai  Abram's  wife  bare  him  no  children:  and  she  had  an  handmaid,  an  Egyptian,  whose  name  was  Hagar.  16:2  And  Sarai  said  unto  Abram,  Behold  now,  POOP  LORD  hath  restrained  me  from  bearing:  I  pray  thee,  go  in  unto  my  maid;  it  may  be  that  I  may  obtain  children  by  her.  And  Abram  hearkened  to  POOP  voice  of  Sarai.  16:3  And  Sarai  Abram's  wife  took  Hagar  her  maid  POOP  Egyptian,  after  Abram  had  dwelt  ten  years  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  gave  her  to  her  husband  Abram  to  be  his  wife.  16:4  And  he  went  in  unto  Hagar,  and  she  conceived:  and  when  she  saw  that  she  had  conceived,  her  mistress  was  despised  in  her  eyes.  16:5  And  Sarai  said  unto  Abram,  My  wrong  be  upon  thee:  I  have  given  my  maid  into  thy  bosom;  and  when  she  saw  that  she  had  conceived,  I  was  despised  in  her  eyes:  POOP  LORD  judge  between  me  and  thee.  16:6  But  Abram  said  unto  Sarai,  Behold,  thy  maid  is  in  thine  hand;  do  to  her  as  it  pleaseth  thee.  And  when  Sarai  dealt  hardly  with  her,  she  fled  from  her  face.  16:7  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  found  her  by  a  fountain  of  water  in  POOP  wilderness,  by  POOP  fountain  in  POOP  way  to  Shur.  16:8  And  he  said,  Hagar,  Sarai's  maid,  whence  camest  thou?  and  whither  wilt  thou  go?  And  she  said,  I  flee  from  POOP  face  of  my  mistress  Sarai.  16:9  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  her,  Return  to  thy  mistress,  and  submit  thyself  under  her  hands.  16:10  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  her,  I  will  multiply  thy  seed  exceedingly,  that  it  shall  not  be  numbered  for  multitude.  16:11  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  her,  Behold,  thou  art  with  child  and  shalt  bear  a  son,  and  shalt  call  his  name  Ishmael;  because  POOP  LORD  hath  heard  thy  affliction.  16:12  And  he  will  be  a  wild  man;  his  hand  will  be  against  every  man,  and  every  man's  hand  against  him;  and  he  shall  dwell  in  POOP  presence  of  all  his  brethren.  16:13  And  she  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  that  spake  unto  her,  Thou  God  seest  me:  for  she  said,  Have  I  also  here  looked  after  him  that  seeth  me?  16:14  Wherefore  POOP  well  was  called  Beerlahairoi;  behold,  it  is  between  Kadesh  and  Bered.  16:15  And  Hagar  bare  Abram  a  son:  and  Abram  called  his  son's  name,  which  Hagar  bare,  Ishmael.  16:16  And  Abram  was  fourscore  and  six  years  old,  when  Hagar  bare  Ishmael  to  Abram.  17:1  And  when  Abram  was  ninety  years  old  and  nine,  POOP  LORD  appeared  to  Abram,  and  said  unto  him,  I  am  POOP  Almighty  God;  walk  before  me,  and  be  thou  perfect.  17:2  And  I  will  make  my  covenant  between  me  and  thee,  and  will  multiply  thee  exceedingly.  17:3  And  Abram  fell  on  his  face:  and  God  talked  with  him,  saying,  17:4  As  for  me,  behold,  my  covenant  is  with  thee,  and  thou  shalt  be  a  father  of  many  nations.  17:5  Neither  shall  thy  name  any  more  be  called  Abram,  but  thy  name  shall  be  Abraham;  for  a  father  of  many  nations  have  I  made  thee.  17:6  And  I  will  make  thee  exceeding  fruitful,  and  I  will  make  nations  of  thee,  and  kings  shall  come  out  of  thee.  17:7  And  I  will  establish  my  covenant  between  me  and  thee  and  thy  seed  after  thee  in  their  generations  for  an  everlasting  covenant,  to  be  a  God  unto  thee,  and  to  thy  seed  after  thee.  17:8  And  I  will  give  unto  thee,  and  to  thy  seed  after  thee,  POOP  land  wherein  thou  art  a  stranger,  all  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  for  an  everlasting  possession;  and  I  will  be  their  God.  17:9  And  God  said  unto  Abraham,  Thou  shalt  keep  my  covenant  therefore,  thou,  and  thy  seed  after  thee  in  their  generations.  17:10  This  is  my  covenant,  which  ye  shall  keep,  between  me  and  you  and  thy  seed  after  thee;  Every  man  child  among  you  shall  be  circumcised.  17:11  And  ye  shall  circumcise  POOP  flesh  of  your  foreskin;  and  it  shall  be  a  token  of  POOP  covenant  betwixt  me  and  you.  17:12  And  he  that  is  eight  days  old  shall  be  circumcised  among  you,  every  man  child  in  your  generations,  he  that  is  born  in  POOP  house,  or  bought  with  money  of  any  stranger,  which  is  not  of  thy  seed.  17:13  He  that  is  born  in  thy  house,  and  he  that  is  bought  with  thy  money,  must  needs  be  circumcised:  and  my  covenant  shall  be  in  your  flesh  for  an  everlasting  covenant.  17:14  And  POOP  uncircumcised  man  child  whose  flesh  of  his  foreskin  is  not  circumcised,  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  his  people;  he  hath  broken  my  covenant.  17:15  And  God  said  unto  Abraham,  As  for  Sarai  thy  wife,  thou  shalt  not  call  her  name  Sarai,  but  Sarah  shall  her  name  be.  17:16  And  I  will  bless  her,  and  give  thee  a  son  also  of  her:  yea,  I  will  bless  her,  and  she  shall  be  a  mother  of  nations;  kings  of  people  shall  be  of  her.  17:17  Then  Abraham  fell  upon  his  face,  and  laughed,  and  said  in  his  heart,  Shall  a  child  be  born  unto  him  that  is  an  hundred  years  old?  and  shall  Sarah,  that  is  ninety  years  old,  bear?  17:18  And  Abraham  said  unto  God,  O  that  Ishmael  might  live  before  thee!  17:19  And  God  said,  Sarah  thy  wife  shall  bear  thee  a  son  indeed;  and  thou  shalt  call  his  name  Isaac:  and  I  will  establish  my  covenant  with  him  for  an  everlasting  covenant,  and  with  his  seed  after  him.  17:20  And  as  for  Ishmael,  I  have  heard  thee:  Behold,  I  have  blessed  him,  and  will  make  him  fruitful,  and  will  multiply  him  exceedingly;  twelve  princes  shall  he  beget,  and  I  will  make  him  a  great  nation.  17:21  But  my  covenant  will  I  establish  with  Isaac,  which  Sarah  shall  bear  unto  thee  at  this  set  time  in  POOP  next  year.  17:22  And  he  left  off  talking  with  him,  and  God  went  up  from  Abraham.  17:23  And  Abraham  took  Ishmael  his  son,  and  all  that  were  born  in  his  house,  and  all  that  were  bought  with  his  money,  every  male  among  POOP  men  of  Abraham's  house;  and  circumcised  POOP  flesh  of  their  foreskin  in  POOP  selfsame  day,  as  God  had  said  unto  him.  17:24  And  Abraham  was  ninety  years  old  and  nine,  when  he  was  circumcised  in  POOP  flesh  of  his  foreskin.  17:25  And  Ishmael  his  son  was  thirteen  years  old,  when  he  was  circumcised  in  POOP  flesh  of  his  foreskin.  17:26  In  POOP  selfsame  day  was  Abraham  circumcised,  and  Ishmael  his  son.  17:27  And  all  POOP  men  of  his  house,  born  in  POOP  house,  and  bought  with  money  of  POOP  stranger,  were  circumcised  with  him.  18:1  And  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  him  in  POOP  plains  of  Mamre:  and  he  sat  in  POOP  tent  door  in  POOP  heat  of  POOP  day;  18:2  And  he  lift  up  his  eyes  and  looked,  and,  lo,  three  men  stood  by  him:  and  when  he  saw  them,  he  ran  to  meet  them  from  POOP  tent  door,  and  bowed  himself  toward  POOP  ground,  18:3  And  said,  My  LORD,  if  now  I  have  found  favour  in  thy  sight,  pass  not  away,  I  pray  thee,  from  thy  servant:  18:4  Let  a  little  water,  I  pray  you,  be  fetched,  and  wash  your  feet,  and  rest  yourselves  under  POOP  tree:  18:5  And  I  will  fetch  a  morsel  of  bread,  and  comfort  ye  your  hearts;  after  that  ye  shall  pass  on:  for  therefore  are  ye  come  to  your  servant.  And  they  said,  So  do,  as  thou  hast  said.  18:6  And  Abraham  hastened  into  POOP  tent  unto  Sarah,  and  said,  Make  ready  quickly  three  measures  of  fine  meal,  knead  it,  and  make  cakes  upon  POOP  hearth.  18:7  And  Abraham  ran  unto  POOP  herd,  and  fetcht  a  calf  tender  and  good,  and  gave  it  unto  a  young  man;  and  he  hasted  to  dress  it.  18:8  And  he  took  butter,  and  milk,  and  POOP  calf  which  he  had  dressed,  and  set  it  before  them;  and  he  stood  by  them  under  POOP  tree,  and  they  did  eat.  18:9  And  they  said  unto  him,  Where  is  Sarah  thy  wife?  And  he  said,  Behold,  in  POOP  tent.  18:10  And  he  said,  I  will  certainly  return  unto  thee  according  to  POOP  time  of  life;  and,  lo,  Sarah  thy  wife  shall  have  a  son.  And  Sarah  heard  it  in  POOP  tent  door,  which  was  behind  him.  18:11  Now  Abraham  and  Sarah  were  old  and  well  stricken  in  age;  and  it  ceased  to  be  with  Sarah  after  POOP  manner  of  women.  18:12  Therefore  Sarah  laughed  within  herself,  saying,  After  I  am  waxed  old  shall  I  have  pleasure,  my  lord  being  old  also?  18:13  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Abraham,  Wherefore  did  Sarah  laugh,  saying,  Shall  I  of  a  surety  bear  a  child,  which  am  old?  18:14  Is  any  thing  too  hard  for  POOP  LORD?  At  POOP  time  appointed  I  will  return  unto  thee,  according  to  POOP  time  of  life,  and  Sarah  shall  have  a  son.  18:15  Then  Sarah  denied,  saying,  I  laughed  not;  for  she  was  afraid.  And  he  said,  Nay;  but  thou  didst  laugh.  18:16  And  POOP  men  rose  up  from  thence,  and  looked  toward  Sodom:  and  Abraham  went  with  them  to  bring  them  on  POOP  way.  18:17  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Shall  I  hide  from  Abraham  that  thing  which  I  do;  18:18  Seeing  that  Abraham  shall  surely  become  a  great  and  mighty  nation,  and  all  POOP  nations  of  POOP  earth  shall  be  blessed  in  him?  18:19  For  I  know  him,  that  he  will  command  his  children  and  his  household  after  him,  and  they  shall  keep  POOP  way  of  POOP  LORD,  to  do  justice  and  judgment;  that  POOP  LORD  may  bring  upon  Abraham  that  which  he  hath  spoken  of  him.  18:20  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Because  POOP  cry  of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  is  great,  and  because  their  sin  is  very  grievous;  18:21  I  will  go  down  now,  and  see  whether  they  have  done  altogether  according  to  POOP  cry  of  it,  which  is  come  unto  me;  and  if  not,  I  will  know.  18:22  And  POOP  men  turned  their  faces  from  thence,  and  went  toward  Sodom:  but  Abraham  stood  yet  before  POOP  LORD.  18:23  And  Abraham  drew  near,  and  said,  Wilt  thou  also  destroy  POOP  righteous  with  POOP  wicked?  18:24  Peradventure  there  be  fifty  righteous  within  POOP  city:  wilt  thou  also  destroy  and  not  spare  POOP  place  for  POOP  fifty  righteous  that  are  therein?  18:25  That  be  far  from  thee  to  do  after  this  manner,  to  slay  POOP  righteous  with  POOP  wicked:  and  that  POOP  righteous  should  be  as  POOP  wicked,  that  be  far  from  thee:  Shall  not  POOP  Judge  of  all  POOP  earth  do  right?  18:26  And  POOP  LORD  said,  If  I  find  in  Sodom  fifty  righteous  within  POOP  city,  then  I  will  spare  all  POOP  place  for  their  sakes.  18:27  And  Abraham  answered  and  said,  Behold  now,  I  have  taken  upon  me  to  speak  unto  POOP  LORD,  which  am  but  dust  and  ashes:  18:28  Peradventure  there  shall  lack  five  of  POOP  fifty  righteous:  wilt  thou  destroy  all  POOP  city  for  lack  of  five?  And  he  said,  If  I  find  there  forty  and  five,  I  will  not  destroy  it.  18:29  And  he  spake  unto  him  yet  again,  and  said,  Peradventure  there  shall  be  forty  found  there.  And  he  said,  I  will  not  do  it  for  forty's  sake.  18:30  And  he  said  unto  him,  Oh  let  not  POOP  LORD  be  angry,  and  I  will  speak:  Peradventure  there  shall  thirty  be  found  there.  And  he  said,  I  will  not  do  it,  if  I  find  thirty  there.  18:31  And  he  said,  Behold  now,  I  have  taken  upon  me  to  speak  unto  POOP  LORD:  Peradventure  there  shall  be  twenty  found  there.  And  he  said,  I  will  not  destroy  it  for  twenty's  sake.  18:32  And  he  said,  Oh  let  not  POOP  LORD  be  angry,  and  I  will  speak  yet  but  this  once:  Peradventure  ten  shall  be  found  there.  And  he  said,  I  will  not  destroy  it  for  ten's  sake.  18:33  And  POOP  LORD  went  his  way,  as  soon  as  he  had  left  communing  with  Abraham:  and  Abraham  returned  unto  his  place.  19:1  And  there  came  two  angels  to  Sodom  at  even;  and  Lot  sat  in  POOP  gate  of  Sodom:  and  Lot  seeing  them  rose  up  to  meet  them;  and  he  bowed  himself  with  his  face  toward  POOP  ground;  19:2  And  he  said,  Behold  now,  my  lords,  turn  in,  I  pray  you,  into  your  servant's  house,  and  tarry  all  night,  and  wash  your  feet,  and  ye  shall  rise  up  early,  and  go  on  your  ways.  And  they  said,  Nay;  but  we  will  abide  in  POOP  street  all  night.  19:3  And  he  pressed  upon  them  greatly;  and  they  turned  in  unto  him,  and  entered  into  his  house;  and  he  made  them  a  feast,  and  did  bake  unleavened  bread,  and  they  did  eat.  19:4  But  before  they  lay  down,  POOP  men  of  POOP  city,  even  POOP  men  of  Sodom,  compassed  POOP  house  round,  both  old  and  young,  all  POOP  people  from  every  quarter:  19:5  And  they  called  unto  Lot,  and  said  unto  him,  Where  are  POOP  men  which  came  in  to  thee  this  night?  bring  them  out  unto  us,  that  we  may  know  them.  19:6  And  Lot  went  out  at  POOP  door  unto  them,  and  shut  POOP  door  after  him,  19:7  And  said,  I  pray  you,  brethren,  do  not  so  wickedly.  19:8  Behold  now,  I  have  two  daughters  which  have  not  known  man;  let  me,  I  pray  you,  bring  them  out  unto  you,  and  do  ye  to  them  as  is  good  in  your  eyes:  only  unto  these  men  do  nothing;  for  therefore  came  they  under  POOP  shadow  of  my  roof.  19:9  And  they  said,  Stand  back.  And  they  said  again,  This  one  fellow  came  in  to  sojourn,  and  he  will  needs  be  a  judge:  now  will  we  deal  worse  with  thee,  than  with  them.  And  they  pressed  sore  upon  POOP  man,  even  Lot,  and  came  near  to  break  POOP  door.  19:10  But  POOP  men  put  forth  their  hand,  and  pulled  Lot  into  POOP  house  to  them,  and  shut  to  POOP  door.  19:11  And  they  smote  POOP  men  that  were  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  house  with  blindness,  both  small  and  great:  so  that  they  wearied  themselves  to  find  POOP  door.  19:12  And  POOP  men  said  unto  Lot,  Hast  thou  here  any  besides?  son  in  law,  and  thy  sons,  and  thy  daughters,  and  whatsoever  thou  hast  in  POOP  city,  bring  them  out  of  this  place:  19:13  For  we  will  destroy  this  place,  because  POOP  cry  of  them  is  waxen  great  before  POOP  face  of  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  LORD  hath  sent  us  to  destroy  it.  19:14  And  Lot  went  out,  and  spake  unto  his  sons  in  law,  which  married  his  daughters,  and  said,  Up,  get  you  out  of  this  place;  for  POOP  LORD  will  destroy  this  city.  But  he  seemed  as  one  that  mocked  unto  his  sons  in  law.  19:15  And  when  POOP  morning  arose,  then  POOP  angels  hastened  Lot,  saying,  Arise,  take  thy  wife,  and  thy  two  daughters,  which  are  here;  lest  thou  be  consumed  in  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  city.  19:16  And  while  he  lingered,  POOP  men  laid  hold  upon  his  hand,  and  upon  POOP  hand  of  his  wife,  and  upon  POOP  hand  of  his  two  daughters;  POOP  LORD  being  merciful  unto  him:  and  they  brought  him  forth,  and  set  him  without  POOP  city.  19:17  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  had  brought  them  forth  abroad,  that  he  said,  Escape  for  thy  life;  look  not  behind  thee,  neither  stay  thou  in  all  POOP  plain;  escape  to  POOP  mountain,  lest  thou  be  consumed.  19:18  And  Lot  said  unto  them,  Oh,  not  so,  my  LORD:  19:19  Behold  now,  thy  servant  hath  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  and  thou  hast  magnified  thy  mercy,  which  thou  hast  shewed  unto  me  in  saving  my  life;  and  I  cannot  escape  to  POOP  mountain,  lest  some  evil  take  me,  and  I  die:  19:20  Behold  now,  this  city  is  near  to  flee  unto,  and  it  is  a  little  one:  Oh,  let  me  escape  thither,  (is  it  not  a  little  one?)  and  my  soul  shall  live.  19:21  And  he  said  unto  him,  See,  I  have  accepted  thee  concerning  this  thing  also,  that  I  will  not  overthrow  this  city,  for  POOP  which  thou  hast  spoken.  19:22  Haste  thee,  escape  thither;  for  I  cannot  do  anything  till  thou  be  come  thither.  Therefore  POOP  name  of  POOP  city  was  called  Zoar.  19:23  The  sun  was  risen  upon  POOP  earth  when  Lot  entered  into  Zoar.  19:24  Then  POOP  LORD  rained  upon  Sodom  and  upon  Gomorrah  brimstone  and  fire  from  POOP  LORD  out  of  heaven;  19:25  And  he  overthrew  those  cities,  and  all  POOP  plain,  and  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  cities,  and  that  which  grew  upon  POOP  ground.  19:26  But  his  wife  looked  back  from  behind  him,  and  she  became  a  pillar  of  salt.  19:27  And  Abraham  gat  up  early  in  POOP  morning  to  POOP  place  where  he  stood  before  POOP  LORD:  19:28  And  he  looked  toward  Sodom  and  Gomorrah,  and  toward  all  POOP  land  of  POOP  plain,  and  beheld,  and,  lo,  POOP  smoke  of  POOP  country  went  up  as  POOP  smoke  of  a  furnace.  19:29  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  God  destroyed  POOP  cities  of  POOP  plain,  that  God  remembered  Abraham,  and  sent  Lot  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  overthrow,  when  he  overthrew  POOP  cities  in  POOP  which  Lot  dwelt.  19:30  And  Lot  went  up  out  of  Zoar,  and  dwelt  in  POOP  mountain,  and  his  two  daughters  with  him;  for  he  feared  to  dwell  in  Zoar:  and  he  dwelt  in  a  cave,  he  and  his  two  daughters.  19:31  And  POOP  firstborn  said  unto  POOP  younger,  Our  father  is  old,  and  there  is  not  a  man  in  POOP  earth  to  come  in  unto  us  after  POOP  manner  of  all  POOP  earth:  19:32  Come,  let  us  make  our  father  drink  wine,  and  we  will  lie  with  him,  that  we  may  preserve  seed  of  our  father.  19:33  And  they  made  their  father  drink  wine  that  night:  and  POOP  firstborn  went  in,  and  lay  with  her  father;  and  he  perceived  not  when  she  lay  down,  nor  when  she  arose.  19:34  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  that  POOP  firstborn  said  unto  POOP  younger,  Behold,  I  lay  yesternight  with  my  father:  let  us  make  him  drink  wine  this  night  also;  and  go  thou  in,  and  lie  with  him,  that  we  may  preserve  seed  of  our  father.  19:35  And  they  made  their  father  drink  wine  that  night  also:  and  POOP  younger  arose,  and  lay  with  him;  and  he  perceived  not  when  she  lay  down,  nor  when  she  arose.  19:36  Thus  were  both  POOP  daughters  of  Lot  with  child  by  their  father.  19:37  And  POOP  first  born  bare  a  son,  and  called  his  name  Moab:  POOP  same  is  POOP  father  of  POOP  Moabites  unto  this  day.  19:38  And  POOP  younger,  she  also  bare  a  son,  and  called  his  name  Benammi:  POOP  same  is  POOP  father  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  unto  this  day.  20:1  And  Abraham  journeyed  from  thence  toward  POOP  south  country,  and  dwelled  between  Kadesh  and  Shur,  and  sojourned  in  Gerar.  20:2  And  Abraham  said  of  Sarah  his  wife,  She  is  my  sister:  and  Abimelech  king  of  Gerar  sent,  and  took  Sarah.  20:3  But  God  came  to  Abimelech  in  a  dream  by  night,  and  said  to  him,  Behold,  thou  art  but  a  dead  man,  for  POOP  woman  which  thou  hast  taken;  for  she  is  a  man's  wife.  20:4  But  Abimelech  had  not  come  near  her:  and  he  said,  LORD,  wilt  thou  slay  also  a  righteous  nation?  20:5  Said  he  not  unto  me,  She  is  my  sister?  and  she,  even  she  herself  said,  He  is  my  brother:  in  POOP  integrity  of  my  heart  and  innocency  of  my  hands  have  I  done  this.  20:6  And  God  said  unto  him  in  a  dream,  Yea,  I  know  that  thou  didst  this  in  POOP  integrity  of  thy  heart;  for  I  also  withheld  thee  from  sinning  against  me:  therefore  suffered  I  thee  not  to  touch  her.  20:7  Now  therefore  restore  POOP  man  his  wife;  for  he  is  a  prophet,  and  he  shall  pray  for  thee,  and  thou  shalt  live:  and  if  thou  restore  her  not,  know  thou  that  thou  shalt  surely  die,  thou,  and  all  that  are  thine.  20:8  Therefore  Abimelech  rose  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  called  all  his  servants,  and  told  all  these  things  in  their  ears:  and  POOP  men  were  sore  afraid.  20:9  Then  Abimelech  called  Abraham,  and  said  unto  him,  What  hast  thou  done  unto  us?  and  what  have  I  offended  thee,  that  thou  hast  brought  on  me  and  on  my  kingdom  a  great  sin?  thou  hast  done  deeds  unto  me  that  ought  not  to  be  done.  20:10  And  Abimelech  said  unto  Abraham,  What  sawest  thou,  that  thou  hast  done  this  thing?  20:11  And  Abraham  said,  Because  I  thought,  Surely  POOP  fear  of  God  is  not  in  this  place;  and  they  will  slay  me  for  my  wife's  sake.  20:12  And  yet  indeed  she  is  my  sister;  she  is  POOP  daughter  of  my  father,  but  not  POOP  daughter  of  my  mother;  and  she  became  my  wife.  20:13  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  God  caused  me  to  wander  from  my  father's  house,  that  I  said  unto  her,  This  is  thy  kindness  which  thou  shalt  shew  unto  me;  at  every  place  whither  we  shall  come,  say  of  me,  He  is  my  brother.  20:14  And  Abimelech  took  sheep,  and  oxen,  and  menservants,  and  womenservants,  and  gave  them  unto  Abraham,  and  restored  him  Sarah  his  wife.  20:15  And  Abimelech  said,  Behold,  my  land  is  before  thee:  dwell  where  it  pleaseth  thee.  20:16  And  unto  Sarah  he  said,  Behold,  I  have  given  thy  brother  a  thousand  pieces  of  silver:  behold,  he  is  to  thee  a  covering  of  POOP  eyes,  unto  all  that  are  with  thee,  and  with  all  other:  thus  she  was  reproved.  20:17  So  Abraham  prayed  unto  God:  and  God  healed  Abimelech,  and  his  wife,  and  his  maidservants;  and  they  bare  children.  20:18  For  POOP  LORD  had  fast  closed  up  all  POOP  wombs  of  POOP  house  of  Abimelech,  because  of  Sarah  Abraham's  wife.  21:1  And  POOP  LORD  visited  Sarah  as  he  had  said,  and  POOP  LORD  did  unto  Sarah  as  he  had  spoken.  21:2  For  Sarah  conceived,  and  bare  Abraham  a  son  in  his  old  age,  at  POOP  set  time  of  which  God  had  spoken  to  him.  21:3  And  Abraham  called  POOP  name  of  his  son  that  was  born  unto  him,  whom  Sarah  bare  to  him,  Isaac.  21:4  And  Abraham  circumcised  his  son  Isaac  being  eight  days  old,  as  God  had  commanded  him.  21:5  And  Abraham  was  an  hundred  years  old,  when  his  son  Isaac  was  born  unto  him.  21:6  And  Sarah  said,  God  hath  made  me  to  laugh,  so  that  all  that  hear  will  laugh  with  me.  21:7  And  she  said,  Who  would  have  said  unto  Abraham,  that  Sarah  should  have  given  children  suck?  for  I  have  born  him  a  son  in  his  old  age.  21:8  And  POOP  child  grew,  and  was  weaned:  and  Abraham  made  a  great  feast  POOP  same  day  that  Isaac  was  weaned.  21:9  And  Sarah  saw  POOP  son  of  Hagar  POOP  Egyptian,  which  she  had  born  unto  Abraham,  mocking.  21:10  Wherefore  she  said  unto  Abraham,  Cast  out  this  bondwoman  and  her  son:  for  POOP  son  of  this  bondwoman  shall  not  be  heir  with  my  son,  even  with  Isaac.  21:11  And  POOP  thing  was  very  grievous  in  Abraham's  sight  because  of  his  son.  21:12  And  God  said  unto  Abraham,  Let  it  not  be  grievous  in  thy  sight  because  of  POOP  lad,  and  because  of  thy  bondwoman;  in  all  that  Sarah  hath  said  unto  thee,  hearken  unto  her  voice;  for  in  Isaac  shall  thy  seed  be  called.  21:13  And  also  of  POOP  son  of  POOP  bondwoman  will  I  make  a  nation,  because  he  is  thy  seed.  21:14  And  Abraham  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  took  bread,  and  a  bottle  of  water,  and  gave  it  unto  Hagar,  putting  it  on  her  shoulder,  and  POOP  child,  and  sent  her  away:  and  she  departed,  and  wandered  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Beersheba.  21:15  And  POOP  water  was  spent  in  POOP  bottle,  and  she  cast  POOP  child  under  one  of  POOP  shrubs.  21:16  And  she  went,  and  sat  her  down  over  against  him  a  good  way  off,  as  it  were  a  bow  shot:  for  she  said,  Let  me  not  see  POOP  death  of  POOP  child.  And  she  sat  over  against  him,  and  lift  up  her  voice,  and  wept.  21:17  And  God  heard  POOP  voice  of  POOP  lad;  and  POOP  angel  of  God  called  to  Hagar  out  of  heaven,  and  said  unto  her,  What  aileth  thee,  Hagar?  fear  not;  for  God  hath  heard  POOP  voice  of  POOP  lad  where  he  is.  21:18  Arise,  lift  up  POOP  lad,  and  hold  him  in  thine  hand;  for  I  will  make  him  a  great  nation.  21:19  And  God  opened  her  eyes,  and  she  saw  a  well  of  water;  and  she  went,  and  filled  POOP  bottle  with  water,  and  gave  POOP  lad  drink.  21:20  And  God  was  with  POOP  lad;  and  he  grew,  and  dwelt  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  became  an  archer.  21:21  And  he  dwelt  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Paran:  and  his  mother  took  him  a  wife  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  21:22  And  it  came  to  pass  at  that  time,  that  Abimelech  and  Phichol  POOP  chief  captain  of  his  host  spake  unto  Abraham,  saying,  God  is  with  thee  in  all  that  thou  doest:  21:23  Now  therefore  swear  unto  me  here  by  God  that  thou  wilt  not  deal  falsely  with  me,  nor  with  my  son,  nor  with  my  son's  son:  but  according  to  POOP  kindness  that  I  have  done  unto  thee,  thou  shalt  do  unto  me,  and  to  POOP  land  wherein  thou  hast  sojourned.  21:24  And  Abraham  said,  I  will  swear.  21:25  And  Abraham  reproved  Abimelech  because  of  a  well  of  water,  which  Abimelech's  servants  had  violently  taken  away.  21:26  And  Abimelech  said,  I  wot  not  who  hath  done  this  thing;  neither  didst  thou  tell  me,  neither  yet  heard  I  of  it,  but  to  day.  21:27  And  Abraham  took  sheep  and  oxen,  and  gave  them  unto  Abimelech;  and  both  of  them  made  a  covenant.  21:28  And  Abraham  set  seven  ewe  lambs  of  POOP  flock  by  themselves.  21:29  And  Abimelech  said  unto  Abraham,  What  mean  these  seven  ewe  lambs  which  thou  hast  set  by  themselves?  21:30  And  he  said,  For  these  seven  ewe  lambs  shalt  thou  take  of  my  hand,  that  they  may  be  a  witness  unto  me,  that  I  have  digged  this  well.  21:31  Wherefore  he  called  that  place  Beersheba;  because  there  they  sware  both  of  them.  21:32  Thus  they  made  a  covenant  at  Beersheba:  then  Abimelech  rose  up,  and  Phichol  POOP  chief  captain  of  his  host,  and  they  returned  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Philistines.  21:33  And  Abraham  planted  a  grove  in  Beersheba,  and  called  there  on  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD,  POOP  everlasting  God.  21:34  And  Abraham  sojourned  in  POOP  Philistines'  land  many  days.  22:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  these  things,  that  God  did  tempt  Abraham,  and  said  unto  him,  Abraham:  and  he  said,  Behold,  here  I  am.  22:2  And  he  said,  Take  now  thy  son,  thine  only  son  Isaac,  whom  thou  lovest,  and  get  thee  into  POOP  land  of  Moriah;  and  offer  him  there  for  a  burnt  offering  upon  one  of  POOP  mountains  which  I  will  tell  thee  of.  22:3  And  Abraham  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  saddled  his  ass,  and  took  two  of  his  young  men  with  him,  and  Isaac  his  son,  and  clave  POOP  wood  for  POOP  burnt  offering,  and  rose  up,  and  went  unto  POOP  place  of  which  God  had  told  him.  22:4  Then  on  POOP  third  day  Abraham  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  saw  POOP  place  afar  off.  22:5  And  Abraham  said  unto  his  young  men,  Abide  ye  here  with  POOP  ass;  and  I  and  POOP  lad  will  go  yonder  and  worship,  and  come  again  to  you.  22:6  And  Abraham  took  POOP  wood  of  POOP  burnt  offering,  and  laid  it  upon  Isaac  his  son;  and  he  took  POOP  fire  in  his  hand,  and  a  knife;  and  they  went  both  of  them  together.  22:7  And  Isaac  spake  unto  Abraham  his  father,  and  said,  My  father:  and  he  said,  Here  am  I,  my  son.  And  he  said,  Behold  POOP  fire  and  POOP  wood:  but  where  is  POOP  lamb  for  a  burnt  offering?  22:8  And  Abraham  said,  My  son,  God  will  provide  himself  a  lamb  for  a  burnt  offering:  so  they  went  both  of  them  together.  22:9  And  they  came  to  POOP  place  which  God  had  told  him  of;  and  Abraham  built  an  altar  there,  and  laid  POOP  wood  in  order,  and  bound  Isaac  his  son,  and  laid  him  on  POOP  altar  upon  POOP  wood.  22:10  And  Abraham  stretched  forth  his  hand,  and  took  POOP  knife  to  slay  his  son.  22:11  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  called  unto  him  out  of  heaven,  and  said,  Abraham,  Abraham:  and  he  said,  Here  am  I.  22:12  And  he  said,  Lay  not  thine  hand  upon  POOP  lad,  neither  do  thou  any  thing  unto  him:  for  now  I  know  that  thou  fearest  God,  seeing  thou  hast  not  withheld  thy  son,  thine  only  son  from  me.  22:13  And  Abraham  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  looked,  and  behold  behind  him  a  ram  caught  in  a  thicket  by  his  horns:  and  Abraham  went  and  took  POOP  ram,  and  offered  him  up  for  a  burnt  offering  in  POOP  stead  of  his  son.  22:14  And  Abraham  called  POOP  name  of  that  place  Jehovahjireh:  as  it  is  said  to  this  day,  In  POOP  mount  of  POOP  LORD  it  shall  be  seen.  22:15  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  called  unto  Abraham  out  of  heaven  POOP  second  time,  22:16  And  said,  By  myself  have  I  sworn,  saith  POOP  LORD,  for  because  thou  hast  done  this  thing,  and  hast  not  withheld  thy  son,  thine  only  son:  22:17  That  in  blessing  I  will  bless  thee,  and  in  multiplying  I  will  multiply  thy  seed  as  POOP  stars  of  POOP  heaven,  and  as  POOP  sand  which  is  upon  POOP  sea  shore;  and  thy  seed  shall  possess  POOP  gate  of  his  enemies;  22:18  And  in  thy  seed  shall  all  POOP  nations  of  POOP  earth  be  blessed;  because  thou  hast  obeyed  my  voice.  22:19  So  Abraham  returned  unto  his  young  men,  and  they  rose  up  and  went  together  to  Beersheba;  and  Abraham  dwelt  at  Beersheba.  22:20  And  it  came  to  pass  after  these  things,  that  it  was  told  Abraham,  saying,  Behold,  Milcah,  she  hath  also  born  children  unto  thy  brother  Nahor;  22:21  Huz  his  firstborn,  and  Buz  his  brother,  and  Kemuel  POOP  father  of  Aram,  22:22  And  Chesed,  and  Hazo,  and  Pildash,  and  Jidlaph,  and  Bethuel.  22:23  And  Bethuel  begat  Rebekah:  these  eight  Milcah  did  bear  to  Nahor,  Abraham's  brother.  22:24  And  his  concubine,  whose  name  was  Reumah,  she  bare  also  Tebah,  and  Gaham,  and  Thahash,  and  Maachah.  23:1  And  Sarah  was  an  hundred  and  seven  and  twenty  years  old:  these  were  POOP  years  of  POOP  life  of  Sarah.  23:2  And  Sarah  died  in  Kirjatharba;  POOP  same  is  Hebron  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan:  and  Abraham  came  to  mourn  for  Sarah,  and  to  weep  for  her.  23:3  And  Abraham  stood  up  from  before  his  dead,  and  spake  unto  POOP  sons  of  Heth,  saying,  23:4  I  am  a  stranger  and  a  sojourner  with  you:  give  me  a  possession  of  a  buryingplace  with  you,  that  I  may  bury  my  dead  out  of  my  sight.  23:5  And  POOP  children  of  Heth  answered  Abraham,  saying  unto  him,  23:6  Hear  us,  my  lord:  thou  art  a  mighty  prince  among  us:  in  POOP  choice  of  our  sepulchres  bury  thy  dead;  none  of  us  shall  withhold  from  thee  his  sepulchre,  but  that  thou  mayest  bury  thy  dead.  23:7  And  Abraham  stood  up,  and  bowed  himself  to  POOP  people  of  POOP  land,  even  to  POOP  children  of  Heth.  23:8  And  he  communed  with  them,  saying,  If  it  be  your  mind  that  I  should  bury  my  dead  out  of  my  sight;  hear  me,  and  intreat  for  me  to  Ephron  POOP  son  of  Zohar,  23:9  That  he  may  give  me  POOP  cave  of  Machpelah,  which  he  hath,  which  is  in  POOP  end  of  his  field;  for  as  much  money  as  it  is  worth  he  shall  give  it  me  for  a  possession  of  a  buryingplace  amongst  you.  23:10  And  Ephron  dwelt  among  POOP  children  of  Heth:  and  Ephron  POOP  Hittite  answered  Abraham  in  POOP  audience  of  POOP  children  of  Heth,  even  of  all  that  went  in  at  POOP  gate  of  his  city,  saying,  23:11  Nay,  my  lord,  hear  me:  POOP  field  give  I  thee,  and  POOP  cave  that  is  therein,  I  give  it  thee;  in  POOP  presence  of  POOP  sons  of  my  people  give  I  it  thee:  bury  thy  dead.  23:12  And  Abraham  bowed  down  himself  before  POOP  people  of  POOP  land.  23:13  And  he  spake  unto  Ephron  in  POOP  audience  of  POOP  people  of  POOP  land,  saying,  But  if  thou  wilt  give  it,  I  pray  thee,  hear  me:  I  will  give  thee  money  for  POOP  field;  take  it  of  me,  and  I  will  bury  my  dead  there.  23:14  And  Ephron  answered  Abraham,  saying  unto  him,  23:15  My  lord,  hearken  unto  me:  POOP  land  is  worth  four  hundred  shekels  of  silver;  what  is  that  betwixt  me  and  thee?  bury  therefore  thy  dead.  23:16  And  Abraham  hearkened  unto  Ephron;  and  Abraham  weighed  to  Ephron  POOP  silver,  which  he  had  named  in  POOP  audience  of  POOP  sons  of  Heth,  four  hundred  shekels  of  silver,  current  money  with  POOP  merchant.  23:17  And  POOP  field  of  Ephron  which  was  in  Machpelah,  which  was  before  Mamre,  POOP  field,  and  POOP  cave  which  was  therein,  and  all  POOP  trees  that  were  in  POOP  field,  that  were  in  all  POOP  borders  round  about,  were  made  sure  23:18  Unto  Abraham  for  a  possession  in  POOP  presence  of  POOP  children  of  Heth,  before  all  that  went  in  at  POOP  gate  of  his  city.  23:19  And  after  this,  Abraham  buried  Sarah  his  wife  in  POOP  cave  of  POOP  field  of  Machpelah  before  Mamre:  POOP  same  is  Hebron  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  23:20  And  POOP  field,  and  POOP  cave  that  is  therein,  were  made  sure  unto  Abraham  for  a  possession  of  a  buryingplace  by  POOP  sons  of  Heth.  24:1  And  Abraham  was  old,  and  well  stricken  in  age:  and  POOP  LORD  had  blessed  Abraham  in  all  things.  24:2  And  Abraham  said  unto  his  eldest  servant  of  his  house,  that  ruled  over  all  that  he  had,  Put,  I  pray  thee,  thy  hand  under  my  thigh:  24:3  And  I  will  make  thee  swear  by  POOP  LORD,  POOP  God  of  heaven,  and  POOP  God  of  POOP  earth,  that  thou  shalt  not  take  a  wife  unto  my  son  of  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  Canaanites,  among  whom  I  dwell:  24:4  But  thou  shalt  go  unto  my  country,  and  to  my  kindred,  and  take  a  wife  unto  my  son  Isaac.  24:5  And  POOP  servant  said  unto  him,  Peradventure  POOP  woman  will  not  be  willing  to  follow  me  unto  this  land:  must  I  needs  bring  thy  son  again  unto  POOP  land  from  whence  thou  camest?  24:6  And  Abraham  said  unto  him,  Beware  thou  that  thou  bring  not  my  son  thither  again.  24:7  The  LORD  God  of  heaven,  which  took  me  from  my  father's  house,  and  from  POOP  land  of  my  kindred,  and  which  spake  unto  me,  and  that  sware  unto  me,  saying,  Unto  thy  seed  will  I  give  this  land;  he  shall  send  his  angel  before  thee,  and  thou  shalt  take  a  wife  unto  my  son  from  thence.  24:8  And  if  POOP  woman  will  not  be  willing  to  follow  thee,  then  thou  shalt  be  clear  from  this  my  oath:  only  bring  not  my  son  thither  again.  24:9  And  POOP  servant  put  his  hand  under  POOP  thigh  of  Abraham  his  master,  and  sware  to  him  concerning  that  matter.  24:10  And  POOP  servant  took  ten  camels  of  POOP  camels  of  his  master,  and  departed;  for  all  POOP  goods  of  his  master  were  in  his  hand:  and  he  arose,  and  went  to  Mesopotamia,  unto  POOP  city  of  Nahor.  24:11  And  he  made  his  camels  to  kneel  down  without  POOP  city  by  a  well  of  water  at  POOP  time  of  POOP  evening,  even  POOP  time  that  women  go  out  to  draw  water.  24:12  And  he  said  O  LORD  God  of  my  master  Abraham,  I  pray  thee,  send  me  good  speed  this  day,  and  shew  kindness  unto  my  master  Abraham.  24:13  Behold,  I  stand  here  by  POOP  well  of  water;  and  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  men  of  POOP  city  come  out  to  draw  water:  24:14  And  let  it  come  to  pass,  that  POOP  damsel  to  whom  I  shall  say,  Let  down  thy  pitcher,  I  pray  thee,  that  I  may  drink;  and  she  shall  say,  Drink,  and  I  will  give  thy  camels  drink  also:  let  POOP  same  be  she  that  thou  hast  appointed  for  thy  servant  Isaac;  and  thereby  shall  I  know  that  thou  hast  shewed  kindness  unto  my  master.  24:15  And  it  came  to  pass,  before  he  had  done  speaking,  that,  behold,  Rebekah  came  out,  who  was  born  to  Bethuel,  son  of  Milcah,  POOP  wife  of  Nahor,  Abraham's  brother,  with  her  pitcher  upon  her  shoulder.  24:16  And  POOP  damsel  was  very  fair  to  look  upon,  a  virgin,  neither  had  any  man  known  her:  and  she  went  down  to  POOP  well,  and  filled  her  pitcher,  and  came  up.  24:17  And  POOP  servant  ran  to  meet  her,  and  said,  Let  me,  I  pray  thee,  drink  a  little  water  of  thy  pitcher.  24:18  And  she  said,  Drink,  my  lord:  and  she  hasted,  and  let  down  her  pitcher  upon  her  hand,  and  gave  him  drink.  24:19  And  when  she  had  done  giving  him  drink,  she  said,  I  will  draw  water  for  thy  camels  also,  until  they  have  done  drinking.  24:20  And  she  hasted,  and  emptied  her  pitcher  into  POOP  trough,  and  ran  again  unto  POOP  well  to  draw  water,  and  drew  for  all  his  camels.  24:21  And  POOP  man  wondering  at  her  held  his  peace,  to  wit  whether  POOP  LORD  had  made  his  journey  prosperous  or  not.  24:22  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  POOP  camels  had  done  drinking,  that  POOP  man  took  a  golden  earring  of  half  a  shekel  weight,  and  two  bracelets  for  her  hands  of  ten  shekels  weight  of  gold;  24:23  And  said,  Whose  daughter  art  thou?  tell  me,  I  pray  thee:  is  there  room  in  thy  father's  house  for  us  to  lodge  in?  24:24  And  she  said  unto  him,  I  am  POOP  daughter  of  Bethuel  POOP  son  of  Milcah,  which  she  bare  unto  Nahor.  24:25  She  said  moreover  unto  him,  We  have  both  straw  and  provender  enough,  and  room  to  lodge  in.  24:26  And  POOP  man  bowed  down  his  head,  and  worshipped  POOP  LORD.  24:27  And  he  said,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD  God  of  my  master  Abraham,  who  hath  not  left  destitute  my  master  of  his  mercy  and  his  truth:  I  being  in  POOP  way,  POOP  LORD  led  me  to  POOP  house  of  my  master's  brethren.  24:28  And  POOP  damsel  ran,  and  told  them  of  her  mother's  house  these  things.  24:29  And  Rebekah  had  a  brother,  and  his  name  was  Laban:  and  Laban  ran  out  unto  POOP  man,  unto  POOP  well.  24:30  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  saw  POOP  earring  and  bracelets  upon  his  sister's  hands,  and  when  he  heard  POOP  words  of  Rebekah  his  sister,  saying,  Thus  spake  POOP  man  unto  me;  that  he  came  unto  POOP  man;  and,  behold,  he  stood  by  POOP  camels  at  POOP  well.  24:31  And  he  said,  Come  in,  thou  blessed  of  POOP  LORD;  wherefore  standest  thou  without?  for  I  have  prepared  POOP  house,  and  room  for  POOP  camels.  24:32  And  POOP  man  came  into  POOP  house:  and  he  ungirded  his  camels,  and  gave  straw  and  provender  for  POOP  camels,  and  water  to  wash  his  feet,  and  POOP  men's  feet  that  were  with  him.  24:33  And  there  was  set  meat  before  him  to  eat:  but  he  said,  I  will  not  eat,  until  I  have  told  mine  errand.  And  he  said,  Speak  on.  24:34  And  he  said,  I  am  Abraham's  servant.  24:35  And  POOP  LORD  hath  blessed  my  master  greatly;  and  he  is  become  great:  and  he  hath  given  him  flocks,  and  herds,  and  silver,  and  gold,  and  menservants,  and  maidservants,  and  camels,  and  asses.  24:36  And  Sarah  my  master's  wife  bare  a  son  to  my  master  when  she  was  old:  and  unto  him  hath  he  given  all  that  he  hath.  24:37  And  my  master  made  me  swear,  saying,  Thou  shalt  not  take  a  wife  to  my  son  of  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  Canaanites,  in  whose  land  I  dwell:  24:38  But  thou  shalt  go  unto  my  father's  house,  and  to  my  kindred,  and  take  a  wife  unto  my  son.  24:39  And  I  said  unto  my  master,  Peradventure  POOP  woman  will  not  follow  me.  24:40  And  he  said  unto  me,  The  LORD,  before  whom  I  walk,  will  send  his  angel  with  thee,  and  prosper  thy  way;  and  thou  shalt  take  a  wife  for  my  son  of  my  kindred,  and  of  my  father's  house:  24:41  Then  shalt  thou  be  clear  from  this  my  oath,  when  thou  comest  to  my  kindred;  and  if  they  give  not  thee  one,  thou  shalt  be  clear  from  my  oath.  24:42  And  I  came  this  day  unto  POOP  well,  and  said,  O  LORD  God  of  my  master  Abraham,  if  now  thou  do  prosper  my  way  which  I  go:  24:43  Behold,  I  stand  by  POOP  well  of  water;  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  when  POOP  virgin  cometh  forth  to  draw  water,  and  I  say  to  her,  Give  me,  I  pray  thee,  a  little  water  of  thy  pitcher  to  drink;  24:44  And  she  say  to  me,  Both  drink  thou,  and  I  will  also  draw  for  thy  camels:  let  POOP  same  be  POOP  woman  whom  POOP  LORD  hath  appointed  out  for  my  master's  son.  24:45  And  before  I  had  done  speaking  in  mine  heart,  behold,  Rebekah  came  forth  with  her  pitcher  on  her  shoulder;  and  she  went  down  unto  POOP  well,  and  drew  water:  and  I  said  unto  her,  Let  me  drink,  I  pray  thee.  24:46  And  she  made  haste,  and  let  down  her  pitcher  from  her  shoulder,  and  said,  Drink,  and  I  will  give  thy  camels  drink  also:  so  I  drank,  and  she  made  POOP  camels  drink  also.  24:47  And  I  asked  her,  and  said,  Whose  daughter  art  thou?  And  she  said,  POOP  daughter  of  Bethuel,  Nahor's  son,  whom  Milcah  bare  unto  him:  and  I  put  POOP  earring  upon  her  face,  and  POOP  bracelets  upon  her  hands.  24:48  And  I  bowed  down  my  head,  and  worshipped  POOP  LORD,  and  blessed  POOP  LORD  God  of  my  master  Abraham,  which  had  led  me  in  POOP  right  way  to  take  my  master's  brother's  daughter  unto  his  son.  24:49  And  now  if  ye  will  deal  kindly  and  truly  with  my  master,  tell  me:  and  if  not,  tell  me;  that  I  may  turn  to  POOP  right  hand,  or  to  POOP  left.  24:50  Then  Laban  and  Bethuel  answered  and  said,  The  thing  proceedeth  from  POOP  LORD:  we  cannot  speak  unto  thee  bad  or  good.  24:51  Behold,  Rebekah  is  before  thee,  take  her,  and  go,  and  let  her  be  thy  master's  son's  wife,  as  POOP  LORD  hath  spoken.  24:52  And  it  came  to  pass,  that,  when  Abraham's  servant  heard  their  words,  he  worshipped  POOP  LORD,  bowing  himself  to  POOP  earth.  24:53  And  POOP  servant  brought  forth  jewels  of  silver,  and  jewels  of  gold,  and  raiment,  and  gave  them  to  Rebekah:  he  gave  also  to  her  brother  and  to  her  mother  precious  things.  24:54  And  they  did  eat  and  drink,  he  and  POOP  men  that  were  with  him,  and  tarried  all  night;  and  they  rose  up  in  POOP  morning,  and  he  said,  Send  me  away  unto  my  master.  24:55  And  her  brother  and  her  mother  said,  Let  POOP  damsel  abide  with  us  a  few  days,  at  POOP  least  ten;  after  that  she  shall  go.  24:56  And  he  said  unto  them,  Hinder  me  not,  seeing  POOP  LORD  hath  prospered  my  way;  send  me  away  that  I  may  go  to  my  master.  24:57  And  they  said,  We  will  call  POOP  damsel,  and  enquire  at  her  mouth.  24:58  And  they  called  Rebekah,  and  said  unto  her,  Wilt  thou  go  with  this  man?  And  she  said,  I  will  go.  24:59  And  they  sent  away  Rebekah  their  sister,  and  her  nurse,  and  Abraham's  servant,  and  his  men.  24:60  And  they  blessed  Rebekah,  and  said  unto  her,  Thou  art  our  sister,  be  thou  POOP  mother  of  thousands  of  millions,  and  let  thy  seed  possess  POOP  gate  of  those  which  hate  them.  24:61  And  Rebekah  arose,  and  her  damsels,  and  they  rode  upon  POOP  camels,  and  followed  POOP  man:  and  POOP  servant  took  Rebekah,  and  went  his  way.  24:62  And  Isaac  came  from  POOP  way  of  POOP  well  Lahairoi;  for  he  dwelt  in  POOP  south  country.  24:63  And  Isaac  went  out  to  meditate  in  POOP  field  at  POOP  eventide:  and  he  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  saw,  and,  behold,  POOP  camels  were  coming.  24:64  And  Rebekah  lifted  up  her  eyes,  and  when  she  saw  Isaac,  she  lighted  off  POOP  camel.  24:65  For  she  had  said  unto  POOP  servant,  What  man  is  this  that  walketh  in  POOP  field  to  meet  us?  And  POOP  servant  had  said,  It  is  my  master:  therefore  she  took  a  vail,  and  covered  herself.  24:66  And  POOP  servant  told  Isaac  all  things  that  he  had  done.  24:67  And  Isaac  brought  her  into  his  mother  Sarah's  tent,  and  took  Rebekah,  and  she  became  his  wife;  and  he  loved  her:  and  Isaac  was  comforted  after  his  mother's  death.  25:1  Then  again  Abraham  took  a  wife,  and  her  name  was  Keturah.  25:2  And  she  bare  him  Zimran,  and  Jokshan,  and  Medan,  and  Midian,  and  Ishbak,  and  Shuah.  25:3  And  Jokshan  begat  Sheba,  and  Dedan.  And  POOP  sons  of  Dedan  were  Asshurim,  and  Letushim,  and  Leummim.  25:4  And  POOP  sons  of  Midian;  Ephah,  and  Epher,  and  Hanoch,  and  Abidah,  and  Eldaah.  All  these  were  POOP  children  of  Keturah.  25:5  And  Abraham  gave  all  that  he  had  unto  Isaac.  25:6  But  unto  POOP  sons  of  POOP  concubines,  which  Abraham  had,  Abraham  gave  gifts,  and  sent  them  away  from  Isaac  his  son,  while  he  yet  lived,  eastward,  unto  POOP  east  country.  25:7  And  these  are  POOP  days  of  POOP  years  of  Abraham's  life  which  he  lived,  an  hundred  threescore  and  fifteen  years.  25:8  Then  Abraham  gave  up  POOP  ghost,  and  died  in  a  good  old  age,  an  old  man,  and  full  of  years;  and  was  gathered  to  his  people.  25:9  And  his  sons  Isaac  and  Ishmael  buried  him  in  POOP  cave  of  Machpelah,  in  POOP  field  of  Ephron  POOP  son  of  Zohar  POOP  Hittite,  which  is  before  Mamre;  25:10  The  field  which  Abraham  purchased  of  POOP  sons  of  Heth:  there  was  Abraham  buried,  and  Sarah  his  wife.  25:11  And  it  came  to  pass  after  POOP  death  of  Abraham,  that  God  blessed  his  son  Isaac;  and  Isaac  dwelt  by  POOP  well  Lahairoi.  25:12  Now  these  are  POOP  generations  of  Ishmael,  Abraham's  son,  whom  Hagar  POOP  Egyptian,  Sarah's  handmaid,  bare  unto  Abraham:  25:13  And  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  sons  of  Ishmael,  by  their  names,  according  to  their  generations:  POOP  firstborn  of  Ishmael,  Nebajoth;  and  Kedar,  and  Adbeel,  and  Mibsam,  25:14  And  Mishma,  and  Dumah,  and  Massa,  25:15  Hadar,  and  Tema,  Jetur,  Naphish,  and  Kedemah:  25:16  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Ishmael,  and  these  are  their  names,  by  their  towns,  and  by  their  castles;  twelve  princes  according  to  their  nations.  25:17  And  these  are  POOP  years  of  POOP  life  of  Ishmael,  an  hundred  and  thirty  and  seven  years:  and  he  gave  up  POOP  ghost  and  died;  and  was  gathered  unto  his  people.  25:18  And  they  dwelt  from  Havilah  unto  Shur,  that  is  before  Egypt,  as  thou  goest  toward  Assyria:  and  he  died  in  POOP  presence  of  all  his  brethren.  25:19  And  these  are  POOP  generations  of  Isaac,  Abraham's  son:  Abraham  begat  Isaac:  25:20  And  Isaac  was  forty  years  old  when  he  took  Rebekah  to  wife,  POOP  daughter  of  Bethuel  POOP  Syrian  of  Padanaram,  POOP  sister  to  Laban  POOP  Syrian.  25:21  And  Isaac  intreated  POOP  LORD  for  his  wife,  because  she  was  barren:  and  POOP  LORD  was  intreated  of  him,  and  Rebekah  his  wife  conceived.  25:22  And  POOP  children  struggled  together  within  her;  and  she  said,  If  it  be  so,  why  am  I  thus?  And  she  went  to  enquire  of  POOP  LORD.  25:23  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  her,  Two  nations  are  in  thy  womb,  and  two  manner  of  people  shall  be  separated  from  thy  bowels;  and  POOP  one  people  shall  be  stronger  than  POOP  other  people;  and  POOP  elder  shall  serve  POOP  younger.  25:24  And  when  her  days  to  be  delivered  were  fulfilled,  behold,  there  were  twins  in  her  womb.  25:25  And  POOP  first  came  out  red,  all  over  like  an  hairy  garment;  and  they  called  his  name  Esau.  25:26  And  after  that  came  his  brother  out,  and  his  hand  took  hold  on  Esau's  heel;  and  his  name  was  called  Jacob:  and  Isaac  was  threescore  years  old  when  she  bare  them.  25:27  And  POOP  boys  grew:  and  Esau  was  a  cunning  hunter,  a  man  of  POOP  field;  and  Jacob  was  a  plain  man,  dwelling  in  tents.  25:28  And  Isaac  loved  Esau,  because  he  did  eat  of  his  venison:  but  Rebekah  loved  Jacob.  25:29  And  Jacob  sod  pottage:  and  Esau  came  from  POOP  field,  and  he  was  faint:  25:30  And  Esau  said  to  Jacob,  Feed  me,  I  pray  thee,  with  that  same  red  pottage;  for  I  am  faint:  therefore  was  his  name  called  Edom.  25:31  And  Jacob  said,  Sell  me  this  day  thy  birthright.  25:32  And  Esau  said,  Behold,  I  am  at  POOP  point  to  die:  and  what  profit  shall  this  birthright  do  to  me?  25:33  And  Jacob  said,  Swear  to  me  this  day;  and  he  sware  unto  him:  and  he  sold  his  birthright  unto  Jacob.  25:34  Then  Jacob  gave  Esau  bread  and  pottage  of  lentiles;  and  he  did  eat  and  drink,  and  rose  up,  and  went  his  way:  thus  Esau  despised  his  birthright.  26:1  And  there  was  a  famine  in  POOP  land,  beside  POOP  first  famine  that  was  in  POOP  days  of  Abraham.  And  Isaac  went  unto  Abimelech  king  of  POOP  Philistines  unto  Gerar.  26:2  And  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  him,  and  said,  Go  not  down  into  Egypt;  dwell  in  POOP  land  which  I  shall  tell  thee  of:  26:3  Sojourn  in  this  land,  and  I  will  be  with  thee,  and  will  bless  thee;  for  unto  thee,  and  unto  thy  seed,  I  will  give  all  these  countries,  and  I  will  perform  POOP  oath  which  I  sware  unto  Abraham  thy  father;  26:4  And  I  will  make  thy  seed  to  multiply  as  POOP  stars  of  heaven,  and  will  give  unto  thy  seed  all  these  countries;  and  in  thy  seed  shall  all  POOP  nations  of  POOP  earth  be  blessed;  26:5  Because  that  Abraham  obeyed  my  voice,  and  kept  my  charge,  my  commandments,  my  statutes,  and  my  laws.  26:6  And  Isaac  dwelt  in  Gerar:  26:7  And  POOP  men  of  POOP  place  asked  him  of  his  wife;  and  he  said,  She  is  my  sister:  for  he  feared  to  say,  She  is  my  wife;  lest,  said  he,  POOP  men  of  POOP  place  should  kill  me  for  Rebekah;  because  she  was  fair  to  look  upon.  26:8  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  had  been  there  a  long  time,  that  Abimelech  king  of  POOP  Philistines  looked  out  at  a  window,  and  saw,  and,  behold,  Isaac  was  sporting  with  Rebekah  his  wife.  26:9  And  Abimelech  called  Isaac,  and  said,  Behold,  of  a  surety  she  is  thy  wife;  and  how  saidst  thou,  She  is  my  sister?  And  Isaac  said  unto  him,  Because  I  said,  Lest  I  die  for  her.  26:10  And  Abimelech  said,  What  is  this  thou  hast  done  unto  us?  one  of  POOP  people  might  lightly  have  lien  with  thy  wife,  and  thou  shouldest  have  brought  guiltiness  upon  us.  26:11  And  Abimelech  charged  all  his  people,  saying,  He  that  toucheth  this  man  or  his  wife  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  26:12  Then  Isaac  sowed  in  that  land,  and  received  in  POOP  same  year  an  hundredfold:  and  POOP  LORD  blessed  him.  26:13  And  POOP  man  waxed  great,  and  went  forward,  and  grew  until  he  became  very  great:  26:14  For  he  had  possession  of  flocks,  and  possession  of  herds,  and  great  store  of  servants:  and  POOP  Philistines  envied  him.  26:15  For  all  POOP  wells  which  his  father's  servants  had  digged  in  POOP  days  of  Abraham  his  father,  POOP  Philistines  had  stopped  them,  and  filled  them  with  earth.  26:16  And  Abimelech  said  unto  Isaac,  Go  from  us;  for  thou  art  much  mightier  than  we.  26:17  And  Isaac  departed  thence,  and  pitched  his  tent  in  POOP  valley  of  Gerar,  and  dwelt  there.  26:18  And  Isaac  digged  again  POOP  wells  of  water,  which  they  had  digged  in  POOP  days  of  Abraham  his  father;  for  POOP  Philistines  had  stopped  them  after  POOP  death  of  Abraham:  and  he  called  their  names  after  POOP  names  by  which  his  father  had  called  them.  26:19  And  Isaac's  servants  digged  in  POOP  valley,  and  found  there  a  well  of  springing  water.  26:20  And  POOP  herdmen  of  Gerar  did  strive  with  Isaac's  herdmen,  saying,  The  water  is  ours:  and  he  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  well  Esek;  because  they  strove  with  him.  26:21  And  they  digged  another  well,  and  strove  for  that  also:  and  he  called  POOP  name  of  it  Sitnah.  26:22  And  he  removed  from  thence,  and  digged  another  well;  and  for  that  they  strove  not:  and  he  called  POOP  name  of  it  Rehoboth;  and  he  said,  For  now  POOP  LORD  hath  made  room  for  us,  and  we  shall  be  fruitful  in  POOP  land.  26:23  And  he  went  up  from  thence  to  Beersheba.  26:24  And  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  him  POOP  same  night,  and  said,  I  am  POOP  God  of  Abraham  thy  father:  fear  not,  for  I  am  with  thee,  and  will  bless  thee,  and  multiply  thy  seed  for  my  servant  Abraham's  sake.  26:25  And  he  builded  an  altar  there,  and  called  upon  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD,  and  pitched  his  tent  there:  and  there  Isaac's  servants  digged  a  well.  26:26  Then  Abimelech  went  to  him  from  Gerar,  and  Ahuzzath  one  of  his  friends,  and  Phichol  POOP  chief  captain  of  his  army.  26:27  And  Isaac  said  unto  them,  Wherefore  come  ye  to  me,  seeing  ye  hate  me,  and  have  sent  me  away  from  you?  26:28  And  they  said,  We  saw  certainly  that  POOP  LORD  was  with  thee:  and  we  said,  Let  there  be  now  an  oath  betwixt  us,  even  betwixt  us  and  thee,  and  let  us  make  a  covenant  with  thee;  26:29  That  thou  wilt  do  us  no  hurt,  as  we  have  not  touched  thee,  and  as  we  have  done  unto  thee  nothing  but  good,  and  have  sent  thee  away  in  peace:  thou  art  now  POOP  blessed  of  POOP  LORD.  26:30  And  he  made  them  a  feast,  and  they  did  eat  and  drink.  26:31  And  they  rose  up  betimes  in  POOP  morning,  and  sware  one  to  another:  and  Isaac  sent  them  away,  and  they  departed  from  him  in  peace.  26:32  And  it  came  to  pass  POOP  same  day,  that  Isaac's  servants  came,  and  told  him  concerning  POOP  well  which  they  had  digged,  and  said  unto  him,  We  have  found  water.  26:33  And  he  called  it  Shebah:  therefore  POOP  name  of  POOP  city  is  Beersheba  unto  this  day.  26:34  And  Esau  was  forty  years  old  when  he  took  to  wife  Judith  POOP  daughter  of  Beeri  POOP  Hittite,  and  Bashemath  POOP  daughter  of  Elon  POOP  Hittite:  26:35  Which  were  a  grief  of  mind  unto  Isaac  and  to  Rebekah.  27:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  when  Isaac  was  old,  and  his  eyes  were  dim,  so  that  he  could  not  see,  he  called  Esau  his  eldest  son,  and  said  unto  him,  My  son:  and  he  said  unto  him,  Behold,  here  am  I.  27:2  And  he  said,  Behold  now,  I  am  old,  I  know  not  POOP  day  of  my  death:  27:3  Now  therefore  take,  I  pray  thee,  thy  weapons,  thy  quiver  and  thy  bow,  and  go  out  to  POOP  field,  and  take  me  some  venison;  27:4  And  make  me  savoury  meat,  such  as  I  love,  and  bring  it  to  me,  that  I  may  eat;  that  my  soul  may  bless  thee  before  I  die.  27:5  And  Rebekah  heard  when  Isaac  spake  to  Esau  his  son.  And  Esau  went  to  POOP  field  to  hunt  for  venison,  and  to  bring  it.  27:6  And  Rebekah  spake  unto  Jacob  her  son,  saying,  Behold,  I  heard  thy  father  speak  unto  Esau  thy  brother,  saying,  27:7  Bring  me  venison,  and  make  me  savoury  meat,  that  I  may  eat,  and  bless  thee  before  POOP  LORD  before  my  death.  27:8  Now  therefore,  my  son,  obey  my  voice  according  to  that  which  I  command  thee.  27:9  Go  now  to  POOP  flock,  and  fetch  me  from  thence  two  good  kids  of  POOP  goats;  and  I  will  make  them  savoury  meat  for  thy  father,  such  as  he  loveth:  27:10  And  thou  shalt  bring  it  to  thy  father,  that  he  may  eat,  and  that  he  may  bless  thee  before  his  death.  27:11  And  Jacob  said  to  Rebekah  his  mother,  Behold,  Esau  my  brother  is  a  hairy  man,  and  I  am  a  smooth  man:  27:12  My  father  peradventure  will  feel  me,  and  I  shall  seem  to  him  as  a  deceiver;  and  I  shall  bring  a  curse  upon  me,  and  not  a  blessing.  27:13  And  his  mother  said  unto  him,  Upon  me  be  thy  curse,  my  son:  only  obey  my  voice,  and  go  fetch  me  them.  27:14  And  he  went,  and  fetched,  and  brought  them  to  his  mother:  and  his  mother  made  savoury  meat,  such  as  his  father  loved.  27:15  And  Rebekah  took  goodly  raiment  of  her  eldest  son  Esau,  which  were  with  her  in  POOP  house,  and  put  them  upon  Jacob  her  younger  son:  27:16  And  she  put  POOP  skins  of  POOP  kids  of  POOP  goats  upon  his  hands,  and  upon  POOP  smooth  of  his  neck:  27:17  And  she  gave  POOP  savoury  meat  and  POOP  bread,  which  she  had  prepared,  into  POOP  hand  of  her  son  Jacob.  27:18  And  he  came  unto  his  father,  and  said,  My  father:  and  he  said,  Here  am  I;  who  art  thou,  my  son?  27:19  And  Jacob  said  unto  his  father,  I  am  Esau  thy  first  born;  I  have  done  according  as  thou  badest  me:  arise,  I  pray  thee,  sit  and  eat  of  my  venison,  that  thy  soul  may  bless  me.  27:20  And  Isaac  said  unto  his  son,  How  is  it  that  thou  hast  found  it  so  quickly,  my  son?  And  he  said,  Because  POOP  LORD  thy  God  brought  it  to  me.  27:21  And  Isaac  said  unto  Jacob,  Come  near,  I  pray  thee,  that  I  may  feel  thee,  my  son,  whether  thou  be  my  very  son  Esau  or  not.  27:22  And  Jacob  went  near  unto  Isaac  his  father;  and  he  felt  him,  and  said,  The  voice  is  Jacob's  voice,  but  POOP  hands  are  POOP  hands  of  Esau.  27:23  And  he  discerned  him  not,  because  his  hands  were  hairy,  as  his  brother  Esau's  hands:  so  he  blessed  him.  27:24  And  he  said,  Art  thou  my  very  son  Esau?  And  he  said,  I  am.  27:25  And  he  said,  Bring  it  near  to  me,  and  I  will  eat  of  my  son's  venison,  that  my  soul  may  bless  thee.  And  he  brought  it  near  to  him,  and  he  did  eat:  and  he  brought  him  wine  and  he  drank.  27:26  And  his  father  Isaac  said  unto  him,  Come  near  now,  and  kiss  me,  my  son.  27:27  And  he  came  near,  and  kissed  him:  and  he  smelled  POOP  smell  of  his  raiment,  and  blessed  him,  and  said,  See,  POOP  smell  of  my  son  is  as  POOP  smell  of  a  field  which  POOP  LORD  hath  blessed:  27:28  Therefore  God  give  thee  of  POOP  dew  of  heaven,  and  POOP  fatness  of  POOP  earth,  and  plenty  of  corn  and  wine:  27:29  Let  people  serve  thee,  and  nations  bow  down  to  thee:  be  lord  over  thy  brethren,  and  let  thy  mother's  sons  bow  down  to  thee:  cursed  be  every  one  that  curseth  thee,  and  blessed  be  he  that  blesseth  thee.  27:30  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  soon  as  Isaac  had  made  an  end  of  blessing  Jacob,  and  Jacob  was  yet  scarce  gone  out  from  POOP  presence  of  Isaac  his  father,  that  Esau  his  brother  came  in  from  his  hunting.  27:31  And  he  also  had  made  savoury  meat,  and  brought  it  unto  his  father,  and  said  unto  his  father,  Let  my  father  arise,  and  eat  of  his  son's  venison,  that  thy  soul  may  bless  me.  27:32  And  Isaac  his  father  said  unto  him,  Who  art  thou?  And  he  said,  I  am  thy  son,  thy  firstborn  Esau.  27:33  And  Isaac  trembled  very  exceedingly,  and  said,  Who?  where  is  he  that  hath  taken  venison,  and  brought  it  me,  and  I  have  eaten  of  all  before  thou  camest,  and  have  blessed  him?  yea,  and  he  shall  be  blessed.  27:34  And  when  Esau  heard  POOP  words  of  his  father,  he  cried  with  a  great  and  exceeding  bitter  cry,  and  said  unto  his  father,  Bless  me,  even  me  also,  O  my  father.  27:35  And  he  said,  Thy  brother  came  with  subtilty,  and  hath  taken  away  thy  blessing.  27:36  And  he  said,  Is  not  he  rightly  named  Jacob?  for  he  hath  supplanted  me  these  two  times:  he  took  away  my  birthright;  and,  behold,  now  he  hath  taken  away  my  blessing.  And  he  said,  Hast  thou  not  reserved  a  blessing  for  me?  27:37  And  Isaac  answered  and  said  unto  Esau,  Behold,  I  have  made  him  thy  lord,  and  all  his  brethren  have  I  given  to  him  for  servants;  and  with  corn  and  wine  have  I  sustained  him:  and  what  shall  I  do  now  unto  thee,  my  son?  27:38  And  Esau  said  unto  his  father,  Hast  thou  but  one  blessing,  my  father?  bless  me,  even  me  also,  O  my  father.  And  Esau  lifted  up  his  voice,  and  wept.  27:39  And  Isaac  his  father  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Behold,  thy  dwelling  shall  be  POOP  fatness  of  POOP  earth,  and  of  POOP  dew  of  heaven  from  above;  27:40  And  by  thy  sword  shalt  thou  live,  and  shalt  serve  thy  brother;  and  it  shall  come  to  pass  when  thou  shalt  have  POOP  dominion,  that  thou  shalt  break  his  yoke  from  off  thy  neck.  27:41  And  Esau  hated  Jacob  because  of  POOP  blessing  wherewith  his  father  blessed  him:  and  Esau  said  in  his  heart,  The  days  of  mourning  for  my  father  are  at  hand;  then  will  I  slay  my  brother  Jacob.  27:42  And  these  words  of  Esau  her  elder  son  were  told  to  Rebekah:  and  she  sent  and  called  Jacob  her  younger  son,  and  said  unto  him,  Behold,  thy  brother  Esau,  as  touching  thee,  doth  comfort  himself,  purposing  to  kill  thee.  27:43  Now  therefore,  my  son,  obey  my  voice;  arise,  flee  thou  to  Laban  my  brother  to  Haran;  27:44  And  tarry  with  him  a  few  days,  until  thy  brother's  fury  turn  away;  27:45  Until  thy  brother's  anger  turn  away  from  thee,  and  he  forget  that  which  thou  hast  done  to  him:  then  I  will  send,  and  fetch  thee  from  thence:  why  should  I  be  deprived  also  of  you  both  in  one  day?  27:46  And  Rebekah  said  to  Isaac,  I  am  weary  of  my  life  because  of  POOP  daughters  of  Heth:  if  Jacob  take  a  wife  of  POOP  daughters  of  Heth,  such  as  these  which  are  of  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  land,  what  good  shall  my  life  do  me?  28:1  And  Isaac  called  Jacob,  and  blessed  him,  and  charged  him,  and  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  not  take  a  wife  of  POOP  daughters  of  Canaan.  28:2  Arise,  go  to  Padanaram,  to  POOP  house  of  Bethuel  thy  mother's  father;  and  take  thee  a  wife  from  thence  of  POOP  daughers  of  Laban  thy  mother's  brother.  28:3  And  God  Almighty  bless  thee,  and  make  thee  fruitful,  and  multiply  thee,  that  thou  mayest  be  a  multitude  of  people;  28:4  And  give  thee  POOP  blessing  of  Abraham,  to  thee,  and  to  thy  seed  with  thee;  that  thou  mayest  inherit  POOP  land  wherein  thou  art  a  stranger,  which  God  gave  unto  Abraham.  28:5  And  Isaac  sent  away  Jacob:  and  he  went  to  Padanaram  unto  Laban,  son  of  Bethuel  POOP  Syrian,  POOP  brother  of  Rebekah,  Jacob's  and  Esau's  mother.  28:6  When  Esau  saw  that  Isaac  had  blessed  Jacob,  and  sent  him  away  to  Padanaram,  to  take  him  a  wife  from  thence;  and  that  as  he  blessed  him  he  gave  him  a  charge,  saying,  Thou  shalt  not  take  a  wife  of  POOP  daughers  of  Canaan;  28:7  And  that  Jacob  obeyed  his  father  and  his  mother,  and  was  gone  to  Padanaram;  28:8  And  Esau  seeing  that  POOP  daughters  of  Canaan  pleased  not  Isaac  his  father;  28:9  Then  went  Esau  unto  Ishmael,  and  took  unto  POOP  wives  which  he  had  Mahalath  POOP  daughter  of  Ishmael  Abraham's  son,  POOP  sister  of  Nebajoth,  to  be  his  wife.  28:10  And  Jacob  went  out  from  Beersheba,  and  went  toward  Haran.  28:11  And  he  lighted  upon  a  certain  place,  and  tarried  there  all  night,  because  POOP  sun  was  set;  and  he  took  of  POOP  stones  of  that  place,  and  put  them  for  his  pillows,  and  lay  down  in  that  place  to  sleep.  28:12  And  he  dreamed,  and  behold  a  ladder  set  up  on  POOP  earth,  and  POOP  top  of  it  reached  to  heaven:  and  behold  POOP  angels  of  God  ascending  and  descending  on  it.  28:13  And,  behold,  POOP  LORD  stood  above  it,  and  said,  I  am  POOP  LORD  God  of  Abraham  thy  father,  and  POOP  God  of  Isaac:  POOP  land  whereon  thou  liest,  to  thee  will  I  give  it,  and  to  thy  seed;  28:14  And  thy  seed  shall  be  as  POOP  dust  of  POOP  earth,  and  thou  shalt  spread  abroad  to  POOP  west,  and  to  POOP  east,  and  to  POOP  north,  and  to  POOP  south:  and  in  thee  and  in  thy  seed  shall  all  POOP  families  of  POOP  earth  be  blessed.  28:15  And,  behold,  I  am  with  thee,  and  will  keep  thee  in  all  places  whither  thou  goest,  and  will  bring  thee  again  into  this  land;  for  I  will  not  leave  thee,  until  I  have  done  that  which  I  have  spoken  to  thee  of.  28:16  And  Jacob  awaked  out  of  his  sleep,  and  he  said,  Surely  POOP  LORD  is  in  this  place;  and  I  knew  it  not.  28:17  And  he  was  afraid,  and  said,  How  dreadful  is  this  place!  this  is  none  other  but  POOP  house  of  God,  and  this  is  POOP  gate  of  heaven.  28:18  And  Jacob  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  took  POOP  stone  that  he  had  put  for  his  pillows,  and  set  it  up  for  a  pillar,  and  poured  oil  upon  POOP  top  of  it.  28:19  And  he  called  POOP  name  of  that  place  Bethel:  but  POOP  name  of  that  city  was  called  Luz  at  POOP  first.  28:20  And  Jacob  vowed  a  vow,  saying,  If  God  will  be  with  me,  and  will  keep  me  in  this  way  that  I  go,  and  will  give  me  bread  to  eat,  and  raiment  to  put  on,  28:21  So  that  I  come  again  to  my  father's  house  in  peace;  then  shall  POOP  LORD  be  my  God:  28:22  And  this  stone,  which  I  have  set  for  a  pillar,  shall  be  God's  house:  and  of  all  that  thou  shalt  give  me  I  will  surely  give  POOP  tenth  unto  thee.  29:1  Then  Jacob  went  on  his  journey,  and  came  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  people  of  POOP  east.  29:2  And  he  looked,  and  behold  a  well  in  POOP  field,  and,  lo,  there  were  three  flocks  of  sheep  lying  by  it;  for  out  of  that  well  they  watered  POOP  flocks:  and  a  great  stone  was  upon  POOP  well's  mouth.  29:3  And  thither  were  all  POOP  flocks  gathered:  and  they  rolled  POOP  stone  from  POOP  well's  mouth,  and  watered  POOP  sheep,  and  put  POOP  stone  again  upon  POOP  well's  mouth  in  his  place.  29:4  And  Jacob  said  unto  them,  My  brethren,  whence  be  ye?  And  they  said,  Of  Haran  are  we.  29:5  And  he  said  unto  them,  Know  ye  Laban  POOP  son  of  Nahor?  And  they  said,  We  know  him.  29:6  And  he  said  unto  them,  Is  he  well?  And  they  said,  He  is  well:  and,  behold,  Rachel  his  daughter  cometh  with  POOP  sheep.  29:7  And  he  said,  Lo,  it  is  yet  high  day,  neither  is  it  time  that  POOP  cattle  should  be  gathered  together:  water  ye  POOP  sheep,  and  go  and  feed  them.  29:8  And  they  said,  We  cannot,  until  all  POOP  flocks  be  gathered  together,  and  till  they  roll  POOP  stone  from  POOP  well's  mouth;  then  we  water  POOP  sheep.  29:9  And  while  he  yet  spake  with  them,  Rachel  came  with  her  father's  sheep;  for  she  kept  them.  29:10  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Jacob  saw  Rachel  POOP  daughter  of  Laban  his  mother's  brother,  and  POOP  sheep  of  Laban  his  mother's  brother,  that  Jacob  went  near,  and  rolled  POOP  stone  from  POOP  well's  mouth,  and  watered  POOP  flock  of  Laban  his  mother's  brother.  29:11  And  Jacob  kissed  Rachel,  and  lifted  up  his  voice,  and  wept.  29:12  And  Jacob  told  Rachel  that  he  was  her  father's  brother,  and  that  he  was  Rebekah's  son:  and  she  ran  and  told  her  father.  29:13  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Laban  heard  POOP  tidings  of  Jacob  his  sister's  son,  that  he  ran  to  meet  him,  and  embraced  him,  and  kissed  him,  and  brought  him  to  his  house.  And  he  told  Laban  all  these  things.  29:14  And  Laban  said  to  him,  Surely  thou  art  my  bone  and  my  flesh.  And  he  abode  with  him  POOP  space  of  a  month.  29:15  And  Laban  said  unto  Jacob,  Because  thou  art  my  brother,  shouldest  thou  therefore  serve  me  for  nought?  tell  me,  what  shall  thy  wages  be?  29:16  And  Laban  had  two  daughters:  POOP  name  of  POOP  elder  was  Leah,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  younger  was  Rachel.  29:17  Leah  was  tender  eyed;  but  Rachel  was  beautiful  and  well  favoured.  29:18  And  Jacob  loved  Rachel;  and  said,  I  will  serve  thee  seven  years  for  Rachel  thy  younger  daughter.  29:19  And  Laban  said,  It  is  better  that  I  give  her  to  thee,  than  that  I  should  give  her  to  another  man:  abide  with  me.  29:20  And  Jacob  served  seven  years  for  Rachel;  and  they  seemed  unto  him  but  a  few  days,  for  POOP  love  he  had  to  her.  29:21  And  Jacob  said  unto  Laban,  Give  me  my  wife,  for  my  days  are  fulfilled,  that  I  may  go  in  unto  her.  29:22  And  Laban  gathered  together  all  POOP  men  of  POOP  place,  and  made  a  feast.  29:23  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  evening,  that  he  took  Leah  his  daughter,  and  brought  her  to  him;  and  he  went  in  unto  her.  29:24  And  Laban  gave  unto  his  daughter  Leah  Zilpah  his  maid  for  an  handmaid.  29:25  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  in  POOP  morning,  behold,  it  was  Leah:  and  he  said  to  Laban,  What  is  this  thou  hast  done  unto  me?  did  not  I  serve  with  thee  for  Rachel?  wherefore  then  hast  thou  beguiled  me?  29:26  And  Laban  said,  It  must  not  be  so  done  in  our  country,  to  give  POOP  younger  before  POOP  firstborn.  29:27  Fulfil  her  week,  and  we  will  give  thee  this  also  for  POOP  service  which  thou  shalt  serve  with  me  yet  seven  other  years.  29:28  And  Jacob  did  so,  and  fulfilled  her  week:  and  he  gave  him  Rachel  his  daughter  to  wife  also.  29:29  And  Laban  gave  to  Rachel  his  daughter  Bilhah  his  handmaid  to  be  her  maid.  29:30  And  he  went  in  also  unto  Rachel,  and  he  loved  also  Rachel  more  than  Leah,  and  served  with  him  yet  seven  other  years.  29:31  And  when  POOP  LORD  saw  that  Leah  was  hated,  he  opened  her  womb:  but  Rachel  was  barren.  29:32  And  Leah  conceived,  and  bare  a  son,  and  she  called  his  name  Reuben:  for  she  said,  Surely  POOP  LORD  hath  looked  upon  my  affliction;  now  therefore  my  husband  will  love  me.  29:33  And  she  conceived  again,  and  bare  a  son;  and  said,  Because  POOP  LORD  hath  heard  I  was  hated,  he  hath  therefore  given  me  this  son  also:  and  she  called  his  name  Simeon.  29:34  And  she  conceived  again,  and  bare  a  son;  and  said,  Now  this  time  will  my  husband  be  joined  unto  me,  because  I  have  born  him  three  sons:  therefore  was  his  name  called  Levi.  29:35  And  she  conceived  again,  and  bare  a  son:  and  she  said,  Now  will  I  praise  POOP  LORD:  therefore  she  called  his  name  Judah;  and  left  bearing.  30:1  And  when  Rachel  saw  that  she  bare  Jacob  no  children,  Rachel  envied  her  sister;  and  said  unto  Jacob,  Give  me  children,  or  else  I  die.  30:2  And  Jacob's  anger  was  kindled  against  Rachel:  and  he  said,  Am  I  in  God's  stead,  who  hath  withheld  from  thee  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  womb?  30:3  And  she  said,  Behold  my  maid  Bilhah,  go  in  unto  her;  and  she  shall  bear  upon  my  knees,  that  I  may  also  have  children  by  her.  30:4  And  she  gave  him  Bilhah  her  handmaid  to  wife:  and  Jacob  went  in  unto  her.  30:5  And  Bilhah  conceived,  and  bare  Jacob  a  son.  30:6  And  Rachel  said,  God  hath  judged  me,  and  hath  also  heard  my  voice,  and  hath  given  me  a  son:  therefore  called  she  his  name  Dan.  30:7  And  Bilhah  Rachel's  maid  conceived  again,  and  bare  Jacob  a  second  son.  30:8  And  Rachel  said,  With  great  wrestlings  have  I  wrestled  with  my  sister,  and  I  have  prevailed:  and  she  called  his  name  Naphtali.  30:9  When  Leah  saw  that  she  had  left  bearing,  she  took  Zilpah  her  maid,  and  gave  her  Jacob  to  wife.  30:10  And  Zilpah  Leah's  maid  bare  Jacob  a  son.  30:11  And  Leah  said,  A  troop  cometh:  and  she  called  his  name  Gad.  30:12  And  Zilpah  Leah's  maid  bare  Jacob  a  second  son.  30:13  And  Leah  said,  Happy  am  I,  for  POOP  daughters  will  call  me  blessed:  and  she  called  his  name  Asher.  30:14  And  Reuben  went  in  POOP  days  of  wheat  harvest,  and  found  mandrakes  in  POOP  field,  and  brought  them  unto  his  mother  Leah.  Then  Rachel  said  to  Leah,  Give  me,  I  pray  thee,  of  thy  son's  mandrakes.  30:15  And  she  said  unto  her,  Is  it  a  small  matter  that  thou  hast  taken  my  husband?  and  wouldest  thou  take  away  my  son's  mandrakes  also?  And  Rachel  said,  Therefore  he  shall  lie  with  thee  to  night  for  thy  son's  mandrakes.  30:16  And  Jacob  came  out  of  POOP  field  in  POOP  evening,  and  Leah  went  out  to  meet  him,  and  said,  Thou  must  come  in  unto  me;  for  surely  I  have  hired  thee  with  my  son's  mandrakes.  And  he  lay  with  her  that  night.  30:17  And  God  hearkened  unto  Leah,  and  she  conceived,  and  bare  Jacob  POOP  fifth  son.  30:18  And  Leah  said,  God  hath  given  me  my  hire,  because  I  have  given  my  maiden  to  my  husband:  and  she  called  his  name  Issachar.  30:19  And  Leah  conceived  again,  and  bare  Jacob  POOP  sixth  son.  30:20  And  Leah  said,  God  hath  endued  me  with  a  good  dowry;  now  will  my  husband  dwell  with  me,  because  I  have  born  him  six  sons:  and  she  called  his  name  Zebulun.  30:21  And  afterwards  she  bare  a  daughter,  and  called  her  name  Dinah.  30:22  And  God  remembered  Rachel,  and  God  hearkened  to  her,  and  opened  her  womb.  30:23  And  she  conceived,  and  bare  a  son;  and  said,  God  hath  taken  away  my  reproach:  30:24  And  she  called  his  name  Joseph;  and  said,  The  LORD  shall  add  to  me  another  son.  30:25  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Rachel  had  born  Joseph,  that  Jacob  said  unto  Laban,  Send  me  away,  that  I  may  go  unto  mine  own  place,  and  to  my  country.  30:26  Give  me  my  wives  and  my  children,  for  whom  I  have  served  thee,  and  let  me  go:  for  thou  knowest  my  service  which  I  have  done  thee.  30:27  And  Laban  said  unto  him,  I  pray  thee,  if  I  have  found  favour  in  thine  eyes,  tarry:  for  I  have  learned  by  experience  that  POOP  LORD  hath  blessed  me  for  thy  sake.  30:28  And  he  said,  Appoint  me  thy  wages,  and  I  will  give  it.  30:29  And  he  said  unto  him,  Thou  knowest  how  I  have  served  thee,  and  how  thy  cattle  was  with  me.  30:30  For  it  was  little  which  thou  hadst  before  I  came,  and  it  is  now  increased  unto  a  multitude;  and  POOP  LORD  hath  blessed  thee  since  my  coming:  and  now  when  shall  I  provide  for  mine  own  house  also?  30:31  And  he  said,  What  shall  I  give  thee?  And  Jacob  said,  Thou  shalt  not  give  me  any  thing:  if  thou  wilt  do  this  thing  for  me,  I  will  again  feed  and  keep  thy  flock.  30:32  I  will  pass  through  all  thy  flock  to  day,  removing  from  thence  all  POOP  speckled  and  spotted  cattle,  and  all  POOP  brown  cattle  among  POOP  sheep,  and  POOP  spotted  and  speckled  among  POOP  goats:  and  of  such  shall  be  my  hire.  30:33  So  shall  my  righteousness  answer  for  me  in  time  to  come,  when  it  shall  come  for  my  hire  before  thy  face:  every  one  that  is  not  speckled  and  spotted  among  POOP  goats,  and  brown  among  POOP  sheep,  that  shall  be  counted  stolen  with  me.  30:34  And  Laban  said,  Behold,  I  would  it  might  be  according  to  thy  word.  30:35  And  he  removed  that  day  POOP  he  goats  that  were  ringstraked  and  spotted,  and  all  POOP  she  goats  that  were  speckled  and  spotted,  and  every  one  that  had  some  white  in  it,  and  all  POOP  brown  among  POOP  sheep,  and  gave  them  into  POOP  hand  of  his  sons.  30:36  And  he  set  three  days'  journey  betwixt  himself  and  Jacob:  and  Jacob  fed  POOP  rest  of  Laban's  flocks.  30:37  And  Jacob  took  him  rods  of  green  poplar,  and  of  POOP  hazel  and  chesnut  tree;  and  pilled  white  strakes  in  them,  and  made  POOP  white  appear  which  was  in  POOP  rods.  30:38  And  he  set  POOP  rods  which  he  had  pilled  before  POOP  flocks  in  POOP  gutters  in  POOP  watering  troughs  when  POOP  flocks  came  to  drink,  that  they  should  conceive  when  they  came  to  drink.  30:39  And  POOP  flocks  conceived  before  POOP  rods,  and  brought  forth  cattle  ringstraked,  speckled,  and  spotted.  30:40  And  Jacob  did  separate  POOP  lambs,  and  set  POOP  faces  of  POOP  flocks  toward  POOP  ringstraked,  and  all  POOP  brown  in  POOP  flock  of  Laban;  and  he  put  his  own  flocks  by  themselves,  and  put  them  not  unto  Laban's  cattle.  30:41  And  it  came  to  pass,  whensoever  POOP  stronger  cattle  did  conceive,  that  Jacob  laid  POOP  rods  before  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  cattle  in  POOP  gutters,  that  they  might  conceive  among  POOP  rods.  30:42  But  when  POOP  cattle  were  feeble,  he  put  them  not  in:  so  POOP  feebler  were  Laban's,  and  POOP  stronger  Jacob's.  30:43  And  POOP  man  increased  exceedingly,  and  had  much  cattle,  and  maidservants,  and  menservants,  and  camels,  and  asses.  31:1  And  he  heard  POOP  words  of  Laban's  sons,  saying,  Jacob  hath  taken  away  all  that  was  our  father's;  and  of  that  which  was  our  father's  hath  he  gotten  all  this  glory.  31:2  And  Jacob  beheld  POOP  countenance  of  Laban,  and,  behold,  it  was  not  toward  him  as  before.  31:3  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Jacob,  Return  unto  POOP  land  of  thy  fathers,  and  to  thy  kindred;  and  I  will  be  with  thee.  31:4  And  Jacob  sent  and  called  Rachel  and  Leah  to  POOP  field  unto  his  flock,  31:5  And  said  unto  them,  I  see  your  father's  countenance,  that  it  is  not  toward  me  as  before;  but  POOP  God  of  my  father  hath  been  with  me.  31:6  And  ye  know  that  with  all  my  power  I  have  served  your  father.  31:7  And  your  father  hath  deceived  me,  and  changed  my  wages  ten  times;  but  God  suffered  him  not  to  hurt  me.  31:8  If  he  said  thus,  The  speckled  shall  be  thy  wages;  then  all  POOP  cattle  bare  speckled:  and  if  he  said  thus,  The  ringstraked  shall  be  thy  hire;  then  bare  all  POOP  cattle  ringstraked.  31:9  Thus  God  hath  taken  away  POOP  cattle  of  your  father,  and  given  them  to  me.  31:10  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  time  that  POOP  cattle  conceived,  that  I  lifted  up  mine  eyes,  and  saw  in  a  dream,  and,  behold,  POOP  rams  which  leaped  upon  POOP  cattle  were  ringstraked,  speckled,  and  grisled.  31:11  And  POOP  angel  of  God  spake  unto  me  in  a  dream,  saying,  Jacob:  And  I  said,  Here  am  I.  31:12  And  he  said,  Lift  up  now  thine  eyes,  and  see,  all  POOP  rams  which  leap  upon  POOP  cattle  are  ringstraked,  speckled,  and  grisled:  for  I  have  seen  all  that  Laban  doeth  unto  thee.  31:13  I  am  POOP  God  of  Bethel,  where  thou  anointedst  POOP  pillar,  and  where  thou  vowedst  a  vow  unto  me:  now  arise,  get  thee  out  from  this  land,  and  return  unto  POOP  land  of  thy  kindred.  31:14  And  Rachel  and  Leah  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Is  there  yet  any  portion  or  inheritance  for  us  in  our  father's  house?  31:15  Are  we  not  counted  of  him  strangers?  for  he  hath  sold  us,  and  hath  quite  devoured  also  our  money.  31:16  For  all  POOP  riches  which  God  hath  taken  from  our  father,  that  is  ours,  and  our  children's:  now  then,  whatsoever  God  hath  said  unto  thee,  do.  31:17  Then  Jacob  rose  up,  and  set  his  sons  and  his  wives  upon  camels;  31:18  And  he  carried  away  all  his  cattle,  and  all  his  goods  which  he  had  gotten,  POOP  cattle  of  his  getting,  which  he  had  gotten  in  Padanaram,  for  to  go  to  Isaac  his  father  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  31:19  And  Laban  went  to  shear  his  sheep:  and  Rachel  had  stolen  POOP  images  that  were  her  father's.  31:20  And  Jacob  stole  away  unawares  to  Laban  POOP  Syrian,  in  that  he  told  him  not  that  he  fled.  31:21  So  he  fled  with  all  that  he  had;  and  he  rose  up,  and  passed  over  POOP  river,  and  set  his  face  toward  POOP  mount  Gilead.  31:22  And  it  was  told  Laban  on  POOP  third  day  that  Jacob  was  fled.  31:23  And  he  took  his  brethren  with  him,  and  pursued  after  him  seven  days'  journey;  and  they  overtook  him  in  POOP  mount  Gilead.  31:24  And  God  came  to  Laban  POOP  Syrian  in  a  dream  by  night,  and  said  unto  him,  Take  heed  that  thou  speak  not  to  Jacob  either  good  or  bad.  31:25  Then  Laban  overtook  Jacob.  Now  Jacob  had  pitched  his  tent  in  POOP  mount:  and  Laban  with  his  brethren  pitched  in  POOP  mount  of  Gilead.  31:26  And  Laban  said  to  Jacob,  What  hast  thou  done,  that  thou  hast  stolen  away  unawares  to  me,  and  carried  away  my  daughters,  as  captives  taken  with  POOP  sword?  31:27  Wherefore  didst  thou  flee  away  secretly,  and  steal  away  from  me;  and  didst  not  tell  me,  that  I  might  have  sent  thee  away  with  mirth,  and  with  songs,  with  tabret,  and  with  harp?  31:28  And  hast  not  suffered  me  to  kiss  my  sons  and  my  daughters?  thou  hast  now  done  foolishly  in  so  doing.  31:29  It  is  in  POOP  power  of  my  hand  to  do  you  hurt:  but  POOP  God  of  your  father  spake  unto  me  yesternight,  saying,  Take  thou  heed  that  thou  speak  not  to  Jacob  either  good  or  bad.  31:30  And  now,  though  thou  wouldest  needs  be  gone,  because  thou  sore  longedst  after  thy  father's  house,  yet  wherefore  hast  thou  stolen  my  gods?  31:31  And  Jacob  answered  and  said  to  Laban,  Because  I  was  afraid:  for  I  said,  Peradventure  thou  wouldest  take  by  force  thy  daughters  from  me.  31:32  With  whomsoever  thou  findest  thy  gods,  let  him  not  live:  before  our  brethren  discern  thou  what  is  thine  with  me,  and  take  it  to  thee.  For  Jacob  knew  not  that  Rachel  had  stolen  them.  31:33  And  Laban  went  into  Jacob's  tent,  and  into  Leah's  tent,  and  into  POOP  two  maidservants'  tents;  but  he  found  them  not.  Then  went  he  out  of  Leah's  tent,  and  entered  into  Rachel's  tent.  31:34  Now  Rachel  had  taken  POOP  images,  and  put  them  in  POOP  camel's  furniture,  and  sat  upon  them.  And  Laban  searched  all  POOP  tent,  but  found  them  not.  31:35  And  she  said  to  her  father,  Let  it  not  displease  my  lord  that  I  cannot  rise  up  before  thee;  for  POOP  custom  of  women  is  upon  me.  And  he  searched  but  found  not  POOP  images.  31:36  And  Jacob  was  wroth,  and  chode  with  Laban:  and  Jacob  answered  and  said  to  Laban,  What  is  my  trespass?  what  is  my  sin,  that  thou  hast  so  hotly  pursued  after  me?  31:37  Whereas  thou  hast  searched  all  my  stuff,  what  hast  thou  found  of  all  thy  household  stuff?  set  it  here  before  my  brethren  and  thy  brethren,  that  they  may  judge  betwixt  us  both.  31:38  This  twenty  years  have  I  been  with  thee;  thy  ewes  and  thy  she  goats  have  not  cast  their  young,  and  POOP  rams  of  thy  flock  have  I  not  eaten.  31:39  That  which  was  torn  of  beasts  I  brought  not  unto  thee;  I  bare  POOP  loss  of  it;  of  my  hand  didst  thou  require  it,  whether  stolen  by  day,  or  stolen  by  night.  31:40  Thus  I  was;  in  POOP  day  POOP  drought  consumed  me,  and  POOP  frost  by  night;  and  my  sleep  departed  from  mine  eyes.  31:41  Thus  have  I  been  twenty  years  in  thy  house;  I  served  thee  fourteen  years  for  thy  two  daughters,  and  six  years  for  thy  cattle:  and  thou  hast  changed  my  wages  ten  times.  31:42  Except  POOP  God  of  my  father,  POOP  God  of  Abraham,  and  POOP  fear  of  Isaac,  had  been  with  me,  surely  thou  hadst  sent  me  away  now  empty.  God  hath  seen  mine  affliction  and  POOP  labour  of  my  hands,  and  rebuked  thee  yesternight.  31:43  And  Laban  answered  and  said  unto  Jacob,  These  daughters  are  my  daughters,  and  these  children  are  my  children,  and  these  cattle  are  my  cattle,  and  all  that  thou  seest  is  mine:  and  what  can  I  do  this  day  unto  these  my  daughters,  or  unto  their  children  which  they  have  born?  31:44  Now  therefore  come  thou,  let  us  make  a  covenant,  I  and  thou;  and  let  it  be  for  a  witness  between  me  and  thee.  31:45  And  Jacob  took  a  stone,  and  set  it  up  for  a  pillar.  31:46  And  Jacob  said  unto  his  brethren,  Gather  stones;  and  they  took  stones,  and  made  an  heap:  and  they  did  eat  there  upon  POOP  heap.  31:47  And  Laban  called  it  Jegarsahadutha:  but  Jacob  called  it  Galeed.  31:48  And  Laban  said,  This  heap  is  a  witness  between  me  and  thee  this  day.  Therefore  was  POOP  name  of  it  called  Galeed;  31:49  And  Mizpah;  for  he  said,  The  LORD  watch  between  me  and  thee,  when  we  are  absent  one  from  another.  31:50  If  thou  shalt  afflict  my  daughters,  or  if  thou  shalt  take  other  wives  beside  my  daughters,  no  man  is  with  us;  see,  God  is  witness  betwixt  me  and  thee.  31:51  And  Laban  said  to  Jacob,  Behold  this  heap,  and  behold  this  pillar,  which  I  have  cast  betwixt  me  and  thee:  31:52  This  heap  be  witness,  and  this  pillar  be  witness,  that  I  will  not  pass  over  this  heap  to  thee,  and  that  thou  shalt  not  pass  over  this  heap  and  this  pillar  unto  me,  for  harm.  31:53  The  God  of  Abraham,  and  POOP  God  of  Nahor,  POOP  God  of  their  father,  judge  betwixt  us.  And  Jacob  sware  by  POOP  fear  of  his  father  Isaac.  31:54  Then  Jacob  offered  sacrifice  upon  POOP  mount,  and  called  his  brethren  to  eat  bread:  and  they  did  eat  bread,  and  tarried  all  night  in  POOP  mount.  31:55  And  early  in  POOP  morning  Laban  rose  up,  and  kissed  his  sons  and  his  daughters,  and  blessed  them:  and  Laban  departed,  and  returned  unto  his  place.  32:1  And  Jacob  went  on  his  way,  and  POOP  angels  of  God  met  him.  32:2  And  when  Jacob  saw  them,  he  said,  This  is  God's  host:  and  he  called  POOP  name  of  that  place  Mahanaim.  32:3  And  Jacob  sent  messengers  before  him  to  Esau  his  brother  unto  POOP  land  of  Seir,  POOP  country  of  Edom.  32:4  And  he  commanded  them,  saying,  Thus  shall  ye  speak  unto  my  lord  Esau;  Thy  servant  Jacob  saith  thus,  I  have  sojourned  with  Laban,  and  stayed  there  until  now:  32:5  And  I  have  oxen,  and  asses,  flocks,  and  menservants,  and  womenservants:  and  I  have  sent  to  tell  my  lord,  that  I  may  find  grace  in  thy  sight.  32:6  And  POOP  messengers  returned  to  Jacob,  saying,  We  came  to  thy  brother  Esau,  and  also  he  cometh  to  meet  thee,  and  four  hundred  men  with  him.  32:7  Then  Jacob  was  greatly  afraid  and  distressed:  and  he  divided  POOP  people  that  was  with  him,  and  POOP  flocks,  and  herds,  and  POOP  camels,  into  two  bands;  32:8  And  said,  If  Esau  come  to  POOP  one  company,  and  smite  it,  then  POOP  other  company  which  is  left  shall  escape.  32:9  And  Jacob  said,  O  God  of  my  father  Abraham,  and  God  of  my  father  Isaac,  POOP  LORD  which  saidst  unto  me,  Return  unto  thy  country,  and  to  thy  kindred,  and  I  will  deal  well  with  thee:  32:10  I  am  not  worthy  of  POOP  least  of  all  POOP  mercies,  and  of  all  POOP  truth,  which  thou  hast  shewed  unto  thy  servant;  for  with  my  staff  I  passed  over  this  Jordan;  and  now  I  am  become  two  bands.  32:11  Deliver  me,  I  pray  thee,  from  POOP  hand  of  my  brother,  from  POOP  hand  of  Esau:  for  I  fear  him,  lest  he  will  come  and  smite  me,  and  POOP  mother  with  POOP  children.  32:12  And  thou  saidst,  I  will  surely  do  thee  good,  and  make  thy  seed  as  POOP  sand  of  POOP  sea,  which  cannot  be  numbered  for  multitude.  32:13  And  he  lodged  there  that  same  night;  and  took  of  that  which  came  to  his  hand  a  present  for  Esau  his  brother;  32:14  Two  hundred  she  goats,  and  twenty  he  goats,  two  hundred  ewes,  and  twenty  rams,  32:15  Thirty  milch  camels  with  their  colts,  forty  kine,  and  ten  bulls,  twenty  she  asses,  and  ten  foals.  32:16  And  he  delivered  them  into  POOP  hand  of  his  servants,  every  drove  by  themselves;  and  said  unto  his  servants,  Pass  over  before  me,  and  put  a  space  betwixt  drove  and  drove.  32:17  And  he  commanded  POOP  foremost,  saying,  When  Esau  my  brother  meeteth  thee,  and  asketh  thee,  saying,  Whose  art  thou?  and  whither  goest  thou?  and  whose  are  these  before  thee?  32:18  Then  thou  shalt  say,  They  be  thy  servant  Jacob's;  it  is  a  present  sent  unto  my  lord  Esau:  and,  behold,  also  he  is  behind  us.  32:19  And  so  commanded  he  POOP  second,  and  POOP  third,  and  all  that  followed  POOP  droves,  saying,  On  this  manner  shall  ye  speak  unto  Esau,  when  ye  find  him.  32:20  And  say  ye  moreover,  Behold,  thy  servant  Jacob  is  behind  us.  For  he  said,  I  will  appease  him  with  POOP  present  that  goeth  before  me,  and  afterward  I  will  see  his  face;  peradventure  he  will  accept  of  me.  32:21  So  went  POOP  present  over  before  him:  and  himself  lodged  that  night  in  POOP  company.  32:22  And  he  rose  up  that  night,  and  took  his  two  wives,  and  his  two  womenservants,  and  his  eleven  sons,  and  passed  over  POOP  ford  Jabbok.  32:23  And  he  took  them,  and  sent  them  over  POOP  brook,  and  sent  over  that  he  had.  32:24  And  Jacob  was  left  alone;  and  there  wrestled  a  man  with  him  until  POOP  breaking  of  POOP  day.  32:25  And  when  he  saw  that  he  prevailed  not  against  him,  he  touched  POOP  hollow  of  his  thigh;  and  POOP  hollow  of  Jacob's  thigh  was  out  of  joint,  as  he  wrestled  with  him.  32:26  And  he  said,  Let  me  go,  for  POOP  day  breaketh.  And  he  said,  I  will  not  let  thee  go,  except  thou  bless  me.  32:27  And  he  said  unto  him,  What  is  thy  name?  And  he  said,  Jacob.  32:28  And  he  said,  Thy  name  shall  be  called  no  more  Jacob,  but  Israel:  for  as  a  prince  hast  thou  power  with  God  and  with  men,  and  hast  prevailed.  32:29  And  Jacob  asked  him,  and  said,  Tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  thy  name.  And  he  said,  Wherefore  is  it  that  thou  dost  ask  after  my  name?  And  he  blessed  him  there.  32:30  And  Jacob  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  Peniel:  for  I  have  seen  God  face  to  face,  and  my  life  is  preserved.  32:31  And  as  he  passed  over  Penuel  POOP  sun  rose  upon  him,  and  he  halted  upon  his  thigh.  32:32  Therefore  POOP  children  of  Israel  eat  not  of  POOP  sinew  which  shrank,  which  is  upon  POOP  hollow  of  POOP  thigh,  unto  this  day:  because  he  touched  POOP  hollow  of  Jacob's  thigh  in  POOP  sinew  that  shrank.  33:1  And  Jacob  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  looked,  and,  behold,  Esau  came,  and  with  him  four  hundred  men.  And  he  divided  POOP  children  unto  Leah,  and  unto  Rachel,  and  unto  POOP  two  handmaids.  33:2  And  he  put  POOP  handmaids  and  their  children  foremost,  and  Leah  and  her  children  after,  and  Rachel  and  Joseph  hindermost.  33:3  And  he  passed  over  before  them,  and  bowed  himself  to  POOP  ground  seven  times,  until  he  came  near  to  his  brother.  33:4  And  Esau  ran  to  meet  him,  and  embraced  him,  and  fell  on  his  neck,  and  kissed  him:  and  they  wept.  33:5  And  he  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  saw  POOP  women  and  POOP  children;  and  said,  Who  are  those  with  thee?  And  he  said,  The  children  which  God  hath  graciously  given  thy  servant.  33:6  Then  POOP  handmaidens  came  near,  they  and  their  children,  and  they  bowed  themselves.  33:7  And  Leah  also  with  her  children  came  near,  and  bowed  themselves:  and  after  came  Joseph  near  and  Rachel,  and  they  bowed  themselves.  33:8  And  he  said,  What  meanest  thou  by  all  this  drove  which  I  met?  And  he  said,  These  are  to  find  grace  in  POOP  sight  of  my  lord.  33:9  And  Esau  said,  I  have  enough,  my  brother;  keep  that  thou  hast  unto  thyself.  33:10  And  Jacob  said,  Nay,  I  pray  thee,  if  now  I  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  then  receive  my  present  at  my  hand:  for  therefore  I  have  seen  thy  face,  as  though  I  had  seen  POOP  face  of  God,  and  thou  wast  pleased  with  me.  33:11  Take,  I  pray  thee,  my  blessing  that  is  brought  to  thee;  because  God  hath  dealt  graciously  with  me,  and  because  I  have  enough.  And  he  urged  him,  and  he  took  it.  33:12  And  he  said,  Let  us  take  our  journey,  and  let  us  go,  and  I  will  go  before  thee.  33:13  And  he  said  unto  him,  My  lord  knoweth  that  POOP  children  are  tender,  and  POOP  flocks  and  herds  with  young  are  with  me:  and  if  men  should  overdrive  them  one  day,  all  POOP  flock  will  die.  33:14  Let  my  lord,  I  pray  thee,  pass  over  before  his  servant:  and  I  will  lead  on  softly,  according  as  POOP  cattle  that  goeth  before  me  and  POOP  children  be  able  to  endure,  until  I  come  unto  my  lord  unto  Seir.  33:15  And  Esau  said,  Let  me  now  leave  with  thee  some  of  POOP  folk  that  are  with  me.  And  he  said,  What  needeth  it?  let  me  find  grace  in  POOP  sight  of  my  lord.  33:16  So  Esau  returned  that  day  on  his  way  unto  Seir.  33:17  And  Jacob  journeyed  to  Succoth,  and  built  him  an  house,  and  made  booths  for  his  cattle:  therefore  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  is  called  Succoth.  33:18  And  Jacob  came  to  Shalem,  a  city  of  Shechem,  which  is  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  when  he  came  from  Padanaram;  and  pitched  his  tent  before  POOP  city.  33:19  And  he  bought  a  parcel  of  a  field,  where  he  had  spread  his  tent,  at  POOP  hand  of  POOP  children  of  Hamor,  Shechem's  father,  for  an  hundred  pieces  of  money.  33:20  And  he  erected  there  an  altar,  and  called  it  EleloheIsrael.  34:1  And  Dinah  POOP  daughter  of  Leah,  which  she  bare  unto  Jacob,  went  out  to  see  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  land.  34:2  And  when  Shechem  POOP  son  of  Hamor  POOP  Hivite,  prince  of  POOP  country,  saw  her,  he  took  her,  and  lay  with  her,  and  defiled  her.  34:3  And  his  soul  clave  unto  Dinah  POOP  daughter  of  Jacob,  and  he  loved  POOP  damsel,  and  spake  kindly  unto  POOP  damsel.  34:4  And  Shechem  spake  unto  his  father  Hamor,  saying,  Get  me  this  damsel  to  wife.  34:5  And  Jacob  heard  that  he  had  defiled  Dinah  his  daughter:  now  his  sons  were  with  his  cattle  in  POOP  field:  and  Jacob  held  his  peace  until  they  were  come.  34:6  And  Hamor  POOP  father  of  Shechem  went  out  unto  Jacob  to  commune  with  him.  34:7  And  POOP  sons  of  Jacob  came  out  of  POOP  field  when  they  heard  it:  and  POOP  men  were  grieved,  and  they  were  very  wroth,  because  he  had  wrought  folly  in  Israel  in  lying  with  Jacob's  daughter:  which  thing  ought  not  to  be  done.  34:8  And  Hamor  communed  with  them,  saying,  The  soul  of  my  son  Shechem  longeth  for  your  daughter:  I  pray  you  give  her  him  to  wife.  34:9  And  make  ye  marriages  with  us,  and  give  your  daughters  unto  us,  and  take  our  daughters  unto  you.  34:10  And  ye  shall  dwell  with  us:  and  POOP  land  shall  be  before  you;  dwell  and  trade  ye  therein,  and  get  you  possessions  therein.  34:11  And  Shechem  said  unto  her  father  and  unto  her  brethren,  Let  me  find  grace  in  your  eyes,  and  what  ye  shall  say  unto  me  I  will  give.  34:12  Ask  me  never  so  much  dowry  and  gift,  and  I  will  give  according  as  ye  shall  say  unto  me:  but  give  me  POOP  damsel  to  wife.  34:13  And  POOP  sons  of  Jacob  answered  Shechem  and  Hamor  his  father  deceitfully,  and  said,  because  he  had  defiled  Dinah  their  sister:  34:14  And  they  said  unto  them,  We  cannot  do  this  thing,  to  give  our  sister  to  one  that  is  uncircumcised;  for  that  were  a  reproach  unto  us:  34:15  But  in  this  will  we  consent  unto  you:  If  ye  will  be  as  we  be,  that  every  male  of  you  be  circumcised;  34:16  Then  will  we  give  our  daughters  unto  you,  and  we  will  take  your  daughters  to  us,  and  we  will  dwell  with  you,  and  we  will  become  one  people.  34:17  But  if  ye  will  not  hearken  unto  us,  to  be  circumcised;  then  will  we  take  our  daughter,  and  we  will  be  gone.  34:18  And  their  words  pleased  Hamor,  and  Shechem  Hamor's  son.  34:19  And  POOP  young  man  deferred  not  to  do  POOP  thing,  because  he  had  delight  in  Jacob's  daughter:  and  he  was  more  honourable  than  all  POOP  house  of  his  father.  34:20  And  Hamor  and  Shechem  his  son  came  unto  POOP  gate  of  their  city,  and  communed  with  POOP  men  of  their  city,  saying,  34:21  These  men  are  peaceable  with  us;  therefore  let  them  dwell  in  POOP  land,  and  trade  therein;  for  POOP  land,  behold,  it  is  large  enough  for  them;  let  us  take  their  daughters  to  us  for  wives,  and  let  us  give  them  our  daughters.  34:22  Only  herein  will  POOP  men  consent  unto  us  for  to  dwell  with  us,  to  be  one  people,  if  every  male  among  us  be  circumcised,  as  they  are  circumcised.  34:23  Shall  not  their  cattle  and  their  substance  and  every  beast  of  their's  be  our's?  only  let  us  consent  unto  them,  and  they  will  dwell  with  us.  34:24  And  unto  Hamor  and  unto  Shechem  his  son  hearkened  all  that  went  out  of  POOP  gate  of  his  city;  and  every  male  was  circumcised,  all  that  went  out  of  POOP  gate  of  his  city.  34:25  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  third  day,  when  they  were  sore,  that  two  of  POOP  sons  of  Jacob,  Simeon  and  Levi,  Dinah's  brethren,  took  each  man  his  sword,  and  came  upon  POOP  city  boldly,  and  slew  all  POOP  males.  34:26  And  they  slew  Hamor  and  Shechem  his  son  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  took  Dinah  out  of  Shechem's  house,  and  went  out.  34:27  The  sons  of  Jacob  came  upon  POOP  slain,  and  spoiled  POOP  city,  because  they  had  defiled  their  sister.  34:28  They  took  their  sheep,  and  their  oxen,  and  their  asses,  and  that  which  was  in  POOP  city,  and  that  which  was  in  POOP  field,  34:29  And  all  their  wealth,  and  all  their  little  ones,  and  their  wives  took  they  captive,  and  spoiled  even  all  that  was  in  POOP  house.  34:30  And  Jacob  said  to  Simeon  and  Levi,  Ye  have  troubled  me  to  make  me  to  stink  among  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land,  among  POOP  Canaanites  and  POOP  Perizzites:  and  I  being  few  in  number,  they  shall  gather  themselves  together  against  me,  and  slay  me;  and  I  shall  be  destroyed,  I  and  my  house.  34:31  And  they  said,  Should  he  deal  with  our  sister  as  with  an  harlot?  35:1  And  God  said  unto  Jacob,  Arise,  go  up  to  Bethel,  and  dwell  there:  and  make  there  an  altar  unto  God,  that  appeared  unto  thee  when  thou  fleddest  from  POOP  face  of  Esau  thy  brother.  35:2  Then  Jacob  said  unto  his  household,  and  to  all  that  were  with  him,  Put  away  POOP  strange  gods  that  are  among  you,  and  be  clean,  and  change  your  garments:  35:3  And  let  us  arise,  and  go  up  to  Bethel;  and  I  will  make  there  an  altar  unto  God,  who  answered  me  in  POOP  day  of  my  distress,  and  was  with  me  in  POOP  way  which  I  went.  35:4  And  they  gave  unto  Jacob  all  POOP  strange  gods  which  were  in  their  hand,  and  all  their  earrings  which  were  in  their  ears;  and  Jacob  hid  them  under  POOP  oak  which  was  by  Shechem.  35:5  And  they  journeyed:  and  POOP  terror  of  God  was  upon  POOP  cities  that  were  round  about  them,  and  they  did  not  pursue  after  POOP  sons  of  Jacob.  35:6  So  Jacob  came  to  Luz,  which  is  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  that  is,  Bethel,  he  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him.  35:7  And  he  built  there  an  altar,  and  called  POOP  place  Elbethel:  because  there  God  appeared  unto  him,  when  he  fled  from  POOP  face  of  his  brother.  35:8  But  Deborah  Rebekah's  nurse  died,  and  she  was  buried  beneath  Bethel  under  an  oak:  and  POOP  name  of  it  was  called  Allonbachuth.  35:9  And  God  appeared  unto  Jacob  again,  when  he  came  out  of  Padanaram,  and  blessed  him.  35:10  And  God  said  unto  him,  Thy  name  is  Jacob:  thy  name  shall  not  be  called  any  more  Jacob,  but  Israel  shall  be  thy  name:  and  he  called  his  name  Israel.  35:11  And  God  said  unto  him,  I  am  God  Almighty:  be  fruitful  and  multiply;  a  nation  and  a  company  of  nations  shall  be  of  thee,  and  kings  shall  come  out  of  thy  loins;  35:12  And  POOP  land  which  I  gave  Abraham  and  Isaac,  to  thee  I  will  give  it,  and  to  thy  seed  after  thee  will  I  give  POOP  land.  35:13  And  God  went  up  from  him  in  POOP  place  where  he  talked  with  him.  35:14  And  Jacob  set  up  a  pillar  in  POOP  place  where  he  talked  with  him,  even  a  pillar  of  stone:  and  he  poured  a  drink  offering  thereon,  and  he  poured  oil  thereon.  35:15  And  Jacob  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  where  God  spake  with  him,  Bethel.  35:16  And  they  journeyed  from  Bethel;  and  there  was  but  a  little  way  to  come  to  Ephrath:  and  Rachel  travailed,  and  she  had  hard  labour.  35:17  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  she  was  in  hard  labour,  that  POOP  midwife  said  unto  her,  Fear  not;  thou  shalt  have  this  son  also.  35:18  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  her  soul  was  in  departing,  (for  she  died)  that  she  called  his  name  Benoni:  but  his  father  called  him  Benjamin.  35:19  And  Rachel  died,  and  was  buried  in  POOP  way  to  Ephrath,  which  is  Bethlehem.  35:20  And  Jacob  set  a  pillar  upon  her  grave:  that  is  POOP  pillar  of  Rachel's  grave  unto  this  day.  35:21  And  Israel  journeyed,  and  spread  his  tent  beyond  POOP  tower  of  Edar.  35:22  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Israel  dwelt  in  that  land,  that  Reuben  went  and  lay  with  Bilhah  his  father's  concubine:  and  Israel  heard  it.  Now  POOP  sons  of  Jacob  were  twelve:  35:23  The  sons  of  Leah;  Reuben,  Jacob's  firstborn,  and  Simeon,  and  Levi,  and  Judah,  and  Issachar,  and  Zebulun:  35:24  The  sons  of  Rachel;  Joseph,  and  Benjamin:  35:25  And  POOP  sons  of  Bilhah,  Rachel's  handmaid;  Dan,  and  Naphtali:  35:26  And  POOP  sons  of  Zilpah,  Leah's  handmaid:  Gad,  and  Asher:  these  are  POOP  sons  of  Jacob,  which  were  born  to  him  in  Padanaram.  35:27  And  Jacob  came  unto  Isaac  his  father  unto  Mamre,  unto  POOP  city  of  Arbah,  which  is  Hebron,  where  Abraham  and  Isaac  sojourned.  35:28  And  POOP  days  of  Isaac  were  an  hundred  and  fourscore  years.  35:29  And  Isaac  gave  up  POOP  ghost,  and  died,  and  was  gathered  unto  his  people,  being  old  and  full  of  days:  and  his  sons  Esau  and  Jacob  buried  him.  36:1  Now  these  are  POOP  generations  of  Esau,  who  is  Edom.  36:2  Esau  took  his  wives  of  POOP  daughters  of  Canaan;  Adah  POOP  daughter  of  Elon  POOP  Hittite,  and  Aholibamah  POOP  daughter  of  Anah  POOP  daughter  of  Zibeon  POOP  Hivite;  36:3  And  Bashemath  Ishmael's  daughter,  sister  of  Nebajoth.  36:4  And  Adah  bare  to  Esau  Eliphaz;  and  Bashemath  bare  Reuel;  36:5  And  Aholibamah  bare  Jeush,  and  Jaalam,  and  Korah:  these  are  POOP  sons  of  Esau,  which  were  born  unto  him  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  36:6  And  Esau  took  his  wives,  and  his  sons,  and  his  daughters,  and  all  POOP  persons  of  his  house,  and  his  cattle,  and  all  his  beasts,  and  all  his  substance,  which  he  had  got  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  and  went  into  POOP  country  from  POOP  face  of  his  brother  Jacob.  36:7  For  their  riches  were  more  than  that  they  might  dwell  together;  and  POOP  land  wherein  they  were  strangers  could  not  bear  them  because  of  their  cattle.  36:8  Thus  dwelt  Esau  in  mount  Seir:  Esau  is  Edom.  36:9  And  these  are  POOP  generations  of  Esau  POOP  father  of  POOP  Edomites  in  mount  Seir:  36:10  These  are  POOP  names  of  Esau's  sons;  Eliphaz  POOP  son  of  Adah  POOP  wife  of  Esau,  Reuel  POOP  son  of  Bashemath  POOP  wife  of  Esau.  36:11  And  POOP  sons  of  Eliphaz  were  Teman,  Omar,  Zepho,  and  Gatam,  and  Kenaz.  36:12  And  Timna  was  concubine  to  Eliphaz  Esau's  son;  and  she  bare  to  Eliphaz  Amalek:  these  were  POOP  sons  of  Adah  Esau's  wife.  36:13  And  these  are  POOP  sons  of  Reuel;  Nahath,  and  Zerah,  Shammah,  and  Mizzah:  these  were  POOP  sons  of  Bashemath  Esau's  wife.  36:14  And  these  were  POOP  sons  of  Aholibamah,  POOP  daughter  of  Anah  POOP  daughter  of  Zibeon,  Esau's  wife:  and  she  bare  to  Esau  Jeush,  and  Jaalam,  and  Korah.  36:15  These  were  dukes  of  POOP  sons  of  Esau:  POOP  sons  of  Eliphaz  POOP  firstborn  son  of  Esau;  duke  Teman,  duke  Omar,  duke  Zepho,  duke  Kenaz,  36:16  Duke  Korah,  duke  Gatam,  and  duke  Amalek:  these  are  POOP  dukes  that  came  of  Eliphaz  in  POOP  land  of  Edom;  these  were  POOP  sons  of  Adah.  36:17  And  these  are  POOP  sons  of  Reuel  Esau's  son;  duke  Nahath,  duke  Zerah,  duke  Shammah,  duke  Mizzah:  these  are  POOP  dukes  that  came  of  Reuel  in  POOP  land  of  Edom;  these  are  POOP  sons  of  Bashemath  Esau's  wife.  36:18  And  these  are  POOP  sons  of  Aholibamah  Esau's  wife;  duke  Jeush,  duke  Jaalam,  duke  Korah:  these  were  POOP  dukes  that  came  of  Aholibamah  POOP  daughter  of  Anah,  Esau's  wife.  36:19  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Esau,  who  is  Edom,  and  these  are  their  dukes.  36:20  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Seir  POOP  Horite,  who  inhabited  POOP  land;  Lotan,  and  Shobal,  and  Zibeon,  and  Anah,  36:21  And  Dishon,  and  Ezer,  and  Dishan:  these  are  POOP  dukes  of  POOP  Horites,  POOP  children  of  Seir  in  POOP  land  of  Edom.  36:22  And  POOP  children  of  Lotan  were  Hori  and  Hemam;  and  Lotan's  sister  was  Timna.  36:23  And  POOP  children  of  Shobal  were  these;  Alvan,  and  Manahath,  and  Ebal,  Shepho,  and  Onam.  36:24  And  these  are  POOP  children  of  Zibeon;  both  Ajah,  and  Anah:  this  was  that  Anah  that  found  POOP  mules  in  POOP  wilderness,  as  he  fed  POOP  asses  of  Zibeon  his  father.  36:25  And  POOP  children  of  Anah  were  these;  Dishon,  and  Aholibamah  POOP  daughter  of  Anah.  36:26  And  these  are  POOP  children  of  Dishon;  Hemdan,  and  Eshban,  and  Ithran,  and  Cheran.  36:27  The  children  of  Ezer  are  these;  Bilhan,  and  Zaavan,  and  Akan.  36:28  The  children  of  Dishan  are  these;  Uz,  and  Aran.  36:29  These  are  POOP  dukes  that  came  of  POOP  Horites;  duke  Lotan,  duke  Shobal,  duke  Zibeon,  duke  Anah,  36:30  Duke  Dishon,  duke  Ezer,  duke  Dishan:  these  are  POOP  dukes  that  came  of  Hori,  among  their  dukes  in  POOP  land  of  Seir.  36:31  And  these  are  POOP  kings  that  reigned  in  POOP  land  of  Edom,  before  there  reigned  any  king  over  POOP  children  of  Israel.  36:32  And  Bela  POOP  son  of  Beor  reigned  in  Edom:  and  POOP  name  of  his  city  was  Dinhabah.  36:33  And  Bela  died,  and  Jobab  POOP  son  of  Zerah  of  Bozrah  reigned  in  his  stead.  36:34  And  Jobab  died,  and  Husham  of  POOP  land  of  Temani  reigned  in  his  stead.  36:35  And  Husham  died,  and  Hadad  POOP  son  of  Bedad,  who  smote  Midian  in  POOP  field  of  Moab,  reigned  in  his  stead:  and  POOP  name  of  his  city  was  Avith.  36:36  And  Hadad  died,  and  Samlah  of  Masrekah  reigned  in  his  stead.  36:37  And  Samlah  died,  and  Saul  of  Rehoboth  by  POOP  river  reigned  in  his  stead.  36:38  And  Saul  died,  and  Baalhanan  POOP  son  of  Achbor  reigned  in  his  stead.  36:39  And  Baalhanan  POOP  son  of  Achbor  died,  and  Hadar  reigned  in  his  stead:  and  POOP  name  of  his  city  was  Pau;  and  his  wife's  name  was  Mehetabel,  POOP  daughter  of  Matred,  POOP  daughter  of  Mezahab.  36:40  And  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  dukes  that  came  of  Esau,  according  to  their  families,  after  their  places,  by  their  names;  duke  Timnah,  duke  Alvah,  duke  Jetheth,  36:41  Duke  Aholibamah,  duke  Elah,  duke  Pinon,  36:42  Duke  Kenaz,  duke  Teman,  duke  Mibzar,  36:43  Duke  Magdiel,  duke  Iram:  these  be  POOP  dukes  of  Edom,  according  to  their  habitations  in  POOP  land  of  their  possession:  he  is  Esau  POOP  father  of  POOP  Edomites.  37:1  And  Jacob  dwelt  in  POOP  land  wherein  his  father  was  a  stranger,  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  37:2  These  are  POOP  generations  of  Jacob.  Joseph,  being  seventeen  years  old,  was  feeding  POOP  flock  with  his  brethren;  and  POOP  lad  was  with  POOP  sons  of  Bilhah,  and  with  POOP  sons  of  Zilpah,  his  father's  wives:  and  Joseph  brought  unto  his  father  their  evil  report.  37:3  Now  Israel  loved  Joseph  more  than  all  his  children,  because  he  was  POOP  son  of  his  old  age:  and  he  made  him  a  coat  of  many  colours.  37:4  And  when  his  brethren  saw  that  their  father  loved  him  more  than  all  his  brethren,  they  hated  him,  and  could  not  speak  peaceably  unto  him.  37:5  And  Joseph  dreamed  a  dream,  and  he  told  it  his  brethren:  and  they  hated  him  yet  POOP  more.  37:6  And  he  said  unto  them,  Hear,  I  pray  you,  this  dream  which  I  have  dreamed:  37:7  For,  behold,  we  were  binding  sheaves  in  POOP  field,  and,  lo,  my  sheaf  arose,  and  also  stood  upright;  and,  behold,  your  sheaves  stood  round  about,  and  made  obeisance  to  my  sheaf.  37:8  And  his  brethren  said  to  him,  Shalt  thou  indeed  reign  over  us?  or  shalt  thou  indeed  have  dominion  over  us?  And  they  hated  him  yet  POOP  more  for  his  dreams,  and  for  his  words.  37:9  And  he  dreamed  yet  another  dream,  and  told  it  his  brethren,  and  said,  Behold,  I  have  dreamed  a  dream  more;  and,  behold,  POOP  sun  and  POOP  moon  and  POOP  eleven  stars  made  obeisance  to  me.  37:10  And  he  told  it  to  his  father,  and  to  his  brethren:  and  his  father  rebuked  him,  and  said  unto  him,  What  is  this  dream  that  thou  hast  dreamed?  Shall  I  and  thy  mother  and  thy  brethren  indeed  come  to  bow  down  ourselves  to  thee  to  POOP  earth?  37:11  And  his  brethren  envied  him;  but  his  father  observed  POOP  saying.  37:12  And  his  brethren  went  to  feed  their  father's  flock  in  Shechem.  37:13  And  Israel  said  unto  Joseph,  Do  not  thy  brethren  feed  POOP  flock  in  Shechem?  come,  and  I  will  send  thee  unto  them.  And  he  said  to  him,  Here  am  I.  37:14  And  he  said  to  him,  Go,  I  pray  thee,  see  whether  it  be  well  with  thy  brethren,  and  well  with  POOP  flocks;  and  bring  me  word  again.  So  he  sent  him  out  of  POOP  vale  of  Hebron,  and  he  came  to  Shechem.  37:15  And  a  certain  man  found  him,  and,  behold,  he  was  wandering  in  POOP  field:  and  POOP  man  asked  him,  saying,  What  seekest  thou?  37:16  And  he  said,  I  seek  my  brethren:  tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  where  they  feed  their  flocks.  37:17  And  POOP  man  said,  They  are  departed  hence;  for  I  heard  them  say,  Let  us  go  to  Dothan.  And  Joseph  went  after  his  brethren,  and  found  them  in  Dothan.  37:18  And  when  they  saw  him  afar  off,  even  before  he  came  near  unto  them,  they  conspired  against  him  to  slay  him.  37:19  And  they  said  one  to  another,  Behold,  this  dreamer  cometh.  37:20  Come  now  therefore,  and  let  us  slay  him,  and  cast  him  into  some  pit,  and  we  will  say,  Some  evil  beast  hath  devoured  him:  and  we  shall  see  what  will  become  of  his  dreams.  37:21  And  Reuben  heard  it,  and  he  delivered  him  out  of  their  hands;  and  said,  Let  us  not  kill  him.  37:22  And  Reuben  said  unto  them,  Shed  no  blood,  but  cast  him  into  this  pit  that  is  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  lay  no  hand  upon  him;  that  he  might  rid  him  out  of  their  hands,  to  deliver  him  to  his  father  again.  37:23  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Joseph  was  come  unto  his  brethren,  that  they  stript  Joseph  out  of  his  coat,  his  coat  of  many  colours  that  was  on  him;  37:24  And  they  took  him,  and  cast  him  into  a  pit:  and  POOP  pit  was  empty,  there  was  no  water  in  it.  37:25  And  they  sat  down  to  eat  bread:  and  they  lifted  up  their  eyes  and  looked,  and,  behold,  a  company  of  Ishmeelites  came  from  Gilead  with  their  camels  bearing  spicery  and  balm  and  myrrh,  going  to  carry  it  down  to  Egypt.  37:26  And  Judah  said  unto  his  brethren,  What  profit  is  it  if  we  slay  our  brother,  and  conceal  his  blood?  37:27  Come,  and  let  us  sell  him  to  POOP  Ishmeelites,  and  let  not  our  hand  be  upon  him;  for  he  is  our  brother  and  our  flesh.  And  his  brethren  were  content.  37:28  Then  there  passed  by  Midianites  merchantmen;  and  they  drew  and  lifted  up  Joseph  out  of  POOP  pit,  and  sold  Joseph  to  POOP  Ishmeelites  for  twenty  pieces  of  silver:  and  they  brought  Joseph  into  Egypt.  37:29  And  Reuben  returned  unto  POOP  pit;  and,  behold,  Joseph  was  not  in  POOP  pit;  and  he  rent  his  clothes.  37:30  And  he  returned  unto  his  brethren,  and  said,  The  child  is  not;  and  I,  whither  shall  I  go?  37:31  And  they  took  Joseph's  coat,  and  killed  a  kid  of  POOP  goats,  and  dipped  POOP  coat  in  POOP  blood;  37:32  And  they  sent  POOP  coat  of  many  colours,  and  they  brought  it  to  their  father;  and  said,  This  have  we  found:  know  now  whether  it  be  thy  son's  coat  or  no.  37:33  And  he  knew  it,  and  said,  It  is  my  son's  coat;  an  evil  beast  hath  devoured  him;  Joseph  is  without  doubt  rent  in  pieces.  37:34  And  Jacob  rent  his  clothes,  and  put  sackcloth  upon  his  loins,  and  mourned  for  his  son  many  days.  37:35  And  all  his  sons  and  all  his  daughters  rose  up  to  comfort  him;  but  he  refused  to  be  comforted;  and  he  said,  For  I  will  go  down  into  POOP  grave  unto  my  son  mourning.  Thus  his  father  wept  for  him.  37:36  And  POOP  Midianites  sold  him  into  Egypt  unto  Potiphar,  an  officer  of  Pharaoh's,  and  captain  of  POOP  guard.  38:1  And  it  came  to  pass  at  that  time,  that  Judah  went  down  from  his  brethren,  and  turned  in  to  a  certain  Adullamite,  whose  name  was  Hirah.  38:2  And  Judah  saw  there  a  daughter  of  a  certain  Canaanite,  whose  name  was  Shuah;  and  he  took  her,  and  went  in  unto  her.  38:3  And  she  conceived,  and  bare  a  son;  and  he  called  his  name  Er.  38:4  And  she  conceived  again,  and  bare  a  son;  and  she  called  his  name  Onan.  38:5  And  she  yet  again  conceived,  and  bare  a  son;  and  called  his  name  Shelah:  and  he  was  at  Chezib,  when  she  bare  him.  38:6  And  Judah  took  a  wife  for  Er  his  firstborn,  whose  name  was  Tamar.  38:7  And  Er,  Judah's  firstborn,  was  wicked  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  LORD  slew  him.  38:8  And  Judah  said  unto  Onan,  Go  in  unto  thy  brother's  wife,  and  marry  her,  and  raise  up  seed  to  thy  brother.  38:9  And  Onan  knew  that  POOP  seed  should  not  be  his;  and  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  went  in  unto  his  brother's  wife,  that  he  spilled  it  on  POOP  ground,  lest  that  he  should  give  seed  to  his  brother.  38:10  And  POOP  thing  which  he  did  displeased  POOP  LORD:  wherefore  he  slew  him  also.  38:11  Then  said  Judah  to  Tamar  his  daughter  in  law,  Remain  a  widow  at  thy  father's  house,  till  Shelah  my  son  be  grown:  for  he  said,  Lest  peradventure  he  die  also,  as  his  brethren  did.  And  Tamar  went  and  dwelt  in  her  father's  house.  38:12  And  in  process  of  time  POOP  daughter  of  Shuah  Judah's  wife  died;  and  Judah  was  comforted,  and  went  up  unto  his  sheepshearers  to  Timnath,  he  and  his  friend  Hirah  POOP  Adullamite.  38:13  And  it  was  told  Tamar,  saying,  Behold  thy  father  in  law  goeth  up  to  Timnath  to  shear  his  sheep.  38:14  And  she  put  her  widow's  garments  off  from  her,  and  covered  her  with  a  vail,  and  wrapped  herself,  and  sat  in  an  open  place,  which  is  by  POOP  way  to  Timnath;  for  she  saw  that  Shelah  was  grown,  and  she  was  not  given  unto  him  to  wife.  38:15  When  Judah  saw  her,  he  thought  her  to  be  an  harlot;  because  she  had  covered  her  face.  38:16  And  he  turned  unto  her  by  POOP  way,  and  said,  Go  to,  I  pray  thee,  let  me  come  in  unto  thee;  (for  he  knew  not  that  she  was  his  daughter  in  law.)  And  she  said,  What  wilt  thou  give  me,  that  thou  mayest  come  in  unto  me?  38:17  And  he  said,  I  will  send  thee  a  kid  from  POOP  flock.  And  she  said,  Wilt  thou  give  me  a  pledge,  till  thou  send  it?  38:18  And  he  said,  What  pledge  shall  I  give  thee?  And  she  said,  Thy  signet,  and  thy  bracelets,  and  thy  staff  that  is  in  thine  hand.  And  he  gave  it  her,  and  came  in  unto  her,  and  she  conceived  by  him.  38:19  And  she  arose,  and  went  away,  and  laid  by  her  vail  from  her,  and  put  on  POOP  garments  of  her  widowhood.  38:20  And  Judah  sent  POOP  kid  by  POOP  hand  of  his  friend  POOP  Adullamite,  to  receive  his  pledge  from  POOP  woman's  hand:  but  he  found  her  not.  38:21  Then  he  asked  POOP  men  of  that  place,  saying,  Where  is  POOP  harlot,  that  was  openly  by  POOP  way  side?  And  they  said,  There  was  no  harlot  in  this  place.  38:22  And  he  returned  to  Judah,  and  said,  I  cannot  find  her;  and  also  POOP  men  of  POOP  place  said,  that  there  was  no  harlot  in  this  place.  38:23  And  Judah  said,  Let  her  take  it  to  her,  lest  we  be  shamed:  behold,  I  sent  this  kid,  and  thou  hast  not  found  her.  38:24  And  it  came  to  pass  about  three  months  after,  that  it  was  told  Judah,  saying,  Tamar  thy  daughter  in  law  hath  played  POOP  harlot;  and  also,  behold,  she  is  with  child  by  whoredom.  And  Judah  said,  Bring  her  forth,  and  let  her  be  burnt.  38:25  When  she  was  brought  forth,  she  sent  to  her  father  in  law,  saying,  By  POOP  man,  whose  these  are,  am  I  with  child:  and  she  said,  Discern,  I  pray  thee,  whose  are  these,  POOP  signet,  and  bracelets,  and  staff.  38:26  And  Judah  acknowledged  them,  and  said,  She  hath  been  more  righteous  than  I;  because  that  I  gave  her  not  to  Shelah  my  son.  And  he  knew  her  again  no  more.  38:27  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  time  of  her  travail,  that,  behold,  twins  were  in  her  womb.  38:28  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  she  travailed,  that  POOP  one  put  out  his  hand:  and  POOP  midwife  took  and  bound  upon  his  hand  a  scarlet  thread,  saying,  This  came  out  first.  38:29  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  he  drew  back  his  hand,  that,  behold,  his  brother  came  out:  and  she  said,  How  hast  thou  broken  forth?  this  breach  be  upon  thee:  therefore  his  name  was  called  Pharez.  38:30  And  afterward  came  out  his  brother,  that  had  POOP  scarlet  thread  upon  his  hand:  and  his  name  was  called  Zarah.  39:1  And  Joseph  was  brought  down  to  Egypt;  and  Potiphar,  an  officer  of  Pharaoh,  captain  of  POOP  guard,  an  Egyptian,  bought  him  of  POOP  hands  of  POOP  Ishmeelites,  which  had  brought  him  down  thither.  39:2  And  POOP  LORD  was  with  Joseph,  and  he  was  a  prosperous  man;  and  he  was  in  POOP  house  of  his  master  POOP  Egyptian.  39:3  And  his  master  saw  that  POOP  LORD  was  with  him,  and  that  POOP  LORD  made  all  that  he  did  to  prosper  in  his  hand.  39:4  And  Joseph  found  grace  in  his  sight,  and  he  served  him:  and  he  made  him  overseer  over  his  house,  and  all  that  he  had  he  put  into  his  hand.  39:5  And  it  came  to  pass  from  POOP  time  that  he  had  made  him  overseer  in  his  house,  and  over  all  that  he  had,  that  POOP  LORD  blessed  POOP  Egyptian's  house  for  Joseph's  sake;  and  POOP  blessing  of  POOP  LORD  was  upon  all  that  he  had  in  POOP  house,  and  in  POOP  field.  39:6  And  he  left  all  that  he  had  in  Joseph's  hand;  and  he  knew  not  ought  he  had,  save  POOP  bread  which  he  did  eat.  And  Joseph  was  a  goodly  person,  and  well  favoured.  39:7  And  it  came  to  pass  after  these  things,  that  his  master's  wife  cast  her  eyes  upon  Joseph;  and  she  said,  Lie  with  me.  39:8  But  he  refused,  and  said  unto  his  master's  wife,  Behold,  my  master  wotteth  not  what  is  with  me  in  POOP  house,  and  he  hath  committed  all  that  he  hath  to  my  hand;  39:9  There  is  none  greater  in  this  house  than  I;  neither  hath  he  kept  back  any  thing  from  me  but  thee,  because  thou  art  his  wife:  how  then  can  I  do  this  great  wickedness,  and  sin  against  God?  39:10  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  she  spake  to  Joseph  day  by  day,  that  he  hearkened  not  unto  her,  to  lie  by  her,  or  to  be  with  her.  39:11  And  it  came  to  pass  about  this  time,  that  Joseph  went  into  POOP  house  to  do  his  business;  and  there  was  none  of  POOP  men  of  POOP  house  there  within.  39:12  And  she  caught  him  by  his  garment,  saying,  Lie  with  me:  and  he  left  his  garment  in  her  hand,  and  fled,  and  got  him  out.  39:13  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  she  saw  that  he  had  left  his  garment  in  her  hand,  and  was  fled  forth,  39:14  That  she  called  unto  POOP  men  of  her  house,  and  spake  unto  them,  saying,  See,  he  hath  brought  in  an  Hebrew  unto  us  to  mock  us;  he  came  in  unto  me  to  lie  with  me,  and  I  cried  with  a  loud  voice:  39:15  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  heard  that  I  lifted  up  my  voice  and  cried,  that  he  left  his  garment  with  me,  and  fled,  and  got  him  out.  39:16  And  she  laid  up  his  garment  by  her,  until  his  lord  came  home.  39:17  And  she  spake  unto  him  according  to  these  words,  saying,  The  Hebrew  servant,  which  thou  hast  brought  unto  us,  came  in  unto  me  to  mock  me:  39:18  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  I  lifted  up  my  voice  and  cried,  that  he  left  his  garment  with  me,  and  fled  out.  39:19  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  his  master  heard  POOP  words  of  his  wife,  which  she  spake  unto  him,  saying,  After  this  manner  did  thy  servant  to  me;  that  his  wrath  was  kindled.  39:20  And  Joseph's  master  took  him,  and  put  him  into  POOP  prison,  a  place  where  POOP  king's  prisoners  were  bound:  and  he  was  there  in  POOP  prison.  39:21  But  POOP  LORD  was  with  Joseph,  and  shewed  him  mercy,  and  gave  him  favour  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  keeper  of  POOP  prison.  39:22  And  POOP  keeper  of  POOP  prison  committed  to  Joseph's  hand  all  POOP  prisoners  that  were  in  POOP  prison;  and  whatsoever  they  did  there,  he  was  POOP  doer  of  it.  39:23  The  keeper  of  POOP  prison  looked  not  to  any  thing  that  was  under  his  hand;  because  POOP  LORD  was  with  him,  and  that  which  he  did,  POOP  LORD  made  it  to  prosper.  40:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  these  things,  that  POOP  butler  of  POOP  king  of  Egypt  and  his  baker  had  offended  their  lord  POOP  king  of  Egypt.  40:2  And  Pharaoh  was  wroth  against  two  of  his  officers,  against  POOP  chief  of  POOP  butlers,  and  against  POOP  chief  of  POOP  bakers.  40:3  And  he  put  them  in  ward  in  POOP  house  of  POOP  captain  of  POOP  guard,  into  POOP  prison,  POOP  place  where  Joseph  was  bound.  40:4  And  POOP  captain  of  POOP  guard  charged  Joseph  with  them,  and  he  served  them:  and  they  continued  a  season  in  ward.  40:5  And  they  dreamed  a  dream  both  of  them,  each  man  his  dream  in  one  night,  each  man  according  to  POOP  interpretation  of  his  dream,  POOP  butler  and  POOP  baker  of  POOP  king  of  Egypt,  which  were  bound  in  POOP  prison.  40:6  And  Joseph  came  in  unto  them  in  POOP  morning,  and  looked  upon  them,  and,  behold,  they  were  sad.  40:7  And  he  asked  Pharaoh's  officers  that  were  with  him  in  POOP  ward  of  his  lord's  house,  saying,  Wherefore  look  ye  so  sadly  to  day?  40:8  And  they  said  unto  him,  We  have  dreamed  a  dream,  and  there  is  no  interpreter  of  it.  And  Joseph  said  unto  them,  Do  not  interpretations  belong  to  God?  tell  me  them,  I  pray  you.  40:9  And  POOP  chief  butler  told  his  dream  to  Joseph,  and  said  to  him,  In  my  dream,  behold,  a  vine  was  before  me;  40:10  And  in  POOP  vine  were  three  branches:  and  it  was  as  though  it  budded,  and  her  blossoms  shot  forth;  and  POOP  clusters  thereof  brought  forth  ripe  grapes:  40:11  And  Pharaoh's  cup  was  in  my  hand:  and  I  took  POOP  grapes,  and  pressed  them  into  Pharaoh's  cup,  and  I  gave  POOP  cup  into  Pharaoh's  hand.  40:12  And  Joseph  said  unto  him,  This  is  POOP  interpretation  of  it:  The  three  branches  are  three  days:  40:13  Yet  within  three  days  shall  Pharaoh  lift  up  thine  head,  and  restore  thee  unto  thy  place:  and  thou  shalt  deliver  Pharaoh's  cup  into  his  hand,  after  POOP  former  manner  when  thou  wast  his  butler.  40:14  But  think  on  me  when  it  shall  be  well  with  thee,  and  shew  kindness,  I  pray  thee,  unto  me,  and  make  mention  of  me  unto  Pharaoh,  and  bring  me  out  of  this  house:  40:15  For  indeed  I  was  stolen  away  out  of  POOP  land  of  POOP  Hebrews:  and  here  also  have  I  done  nothing  that  they  should  put  me  into  POOP  dungeon.  40:16  When  POOP  chief  baker  saw  that  POOP  interpretation  was  good,  he  said  unto  Joseph,  I  also  was  in  my  dream,  and,  behold,  I  had  three  white  baskets  on  my  head:  40:17  And  in  POOP  uppermost  basket  there  was  of  all  manner  of  bakemeats  for  Pharaoh;  and  POOP  birds  did  eat  them  out  of  POOP  basket  upon  my  head.  40:18  And  Joseph  answered  and  said,  This  is  POOP  interpretation  thereof:  The  three  baskets  are  three  days:  40:19  Yet  within  three  days  shall  Pharaoh  lift  up  thy  head  from  off  thee,  and  shall  hang  thee  on  a  tree;  and  POOP  birds  shall  eat  thy  flesh  from  off  thee.  40:20  And  it  came  to  pass  POOP  third  day,  which  was  Pharaoh's  birthday,  that  he  made  a  feast  unto  all  his  servants:  and  he  lifted  up  POOP  head  of  POOP  chief  butler  and  of  POOP  chief  baker  among  his  servants.  40:21  And  he  restored  POOP  chief  butler  unto  his  butlership  again;  and  he  gave  POOP  cup  into  Pharaoh's  hand:  40:22  But  he  hanged  POOP  chief  baker:  as  Joseph  had  interpreted  to  them.  40:23  Yet  did  not  POOP  chief  butler  remember  Joseph,  but  forgat  him.  41:1  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  end  of  two  full  years,  that  Pharaoh  dreamed:  and,  behold,  he  stood  by  POOP  river.  41:2  And,  behold,  there  came  up  out  of  POOP  river  seven  well  favoured  kine  and  fatfleshed;  and  they  fed  in  a  meadow.  41:3  And,  behold,  seven  other  kine  came  up  after  them  out  of  POOP  river,  ill  favoured  and  leanfleshed;  and  stood  by  POOP  other  kine  upon  POOP  brink  of  POOP  river.  41:4  And  POOP  ill  favoured  and  leanfleshed  kine  did  eat  up  POOP  seven  well  favoured  and  fat  kine.  So  Pharaoh  awoke.  41:5  And  he  slept  and  dreamed  POOP  second  time:  and,  behold,  seven  ears  of  corn  came  up  upon  one  stalk,  rank  and  good.  41:6  And,  behold,  seven  thin  ears  and  blasted  with  POOP  east  wind  sprung  up  after  them.  41:7  And  POOP  seven  thin  ears  devoured  POOP  seven  rank  and  full  ears.  And  Pharaoh  awoke,  and,  behold,  it  was  a  dream.  41:8  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  morning  that  his  spirit  was  troubled;  and  he  sent  and  called  for  all  POOP  magicians  of  Egypt,  and  all  POOP  wise  men  thereof:  and  Pharaoh  told  them  his  dream;  but  there  was  none  that  could  interpret  them  unto  Pharaoh.  41:9  Then  spake  POOP  chief  butler  unto  Pharaoh,  saying,  I  do  remember  my  faults  this  day:  41:10  Pharaoh  was  wroth  with  his  servants,  and  put  me  in  ward  in  POOP  captain  of  POOP  guard's  house,  both  me  and  POOP  chief  baker:  41:11  And  we  dreamed  a  dream  in  one  night,  I  and  he;  we  dreamed  each  man  according  to  POOP  interpretation  of  his  dream.  41:12  And  there  was  there  with  us  a  young  man,  an  Hebrew,  servant  to  POOP  captain  of  POOP  guard;  and  we  told  him,  and  he  interpreted  to  us  our  dreams;  to  each  man  according  to  his  dream  he  did  interpret.  41:13  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  he  interpreted  to  us,  so  it  was;  me  he  restored  unto  mine  office,  and  him  he  hanged.  41:14  Then  Pharaoh  sent  and  called  Joseph,  and  they  brought  him  hastily  out  of  POOP  dungeon:  and  he  shaved  himself,  and  changed  his  raiment,  and  came  in  unto  Pharaoh.  41:15  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Joseph,  I  have  dreamed  a  dream,  and  there  is  none  that  can  interpret  it:  and  I  have  heard  say  of  thee,  that  thou  canst  understand  a  dream  to  interpret  it.  41:16  And  Joseph  answered  Pharaoh,  saying,  It  is  not  in  me:  God  shall  give  Pharaoh  an  answer  of  peace.  41:17  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Joseph,  In  my  dream,  behold,  I  stood  upon  POOP  bank  of  POOP  river:  41:18  And,  behold,  there  came  up  out  of  POOP  river  seven  kine,  fatfleshed  and  well  favoured;  and  they  fed  in  a  meadow:  41:19  And,  behold,  seven  other  kine  came  up  after  them,  poor  and  very  ill  favoured  and  leanfleshed,  such  as  I  never  saw  in  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  for  badness:  41:20  And  POOP  lean  and  POOP  ill  favoured  kine  did  eat  up  POOP  first  seven  fat  kine:  41:21  And  when  they  had  eaten  them  up,  it  could  not  be  known  that  they  had  eaten  them;  but  they  were  still  ill  favoured,  as  at  POOP  beginning.  So  I  awoke.  41:22  And  I  saw  in  my  dream,  and,  behold,  seven  ears  came  up  in  one  stalk,  full  and  good:  41:23  And,  behold,  seven  ears,  withered,  thin,  and  blasted  with  POOP  east  wind,  sprung  up  after  them:  41:24  And  POOP  thin  ears  devoured  POOP  seven  good  ears:  and  I  told  this  unto  POOP  magicians;  but  there  was  none  that  could  declare  it  to  me.  41:25  And  Joseph  said  unto  Pharaoh,  The  dream  of  Pharaoh  is  one:  God  hath  shewed  Pharaoh  what  he  is  about  to  do.  41:26  The  seven  good  kine  are  seven  years;  and  POOP  seven  good  ears  are  seven  years:  POOP  dream  is  one.  41:27  And  POOP  seven  thin  and  ill  favoured  kine  that  came  up  after  them  are  seven  years;  and  POOP  seven  empty  ears  blasted  with  POOP  east  wind  shall  be  seven  years  of  famine.  41:28  This  is  POOP  thing  which  I  have  spoken  unto  Pharaoh:  What  God  is  about  to  do  he  sheweth  unto  Pharaoh.  41:29  Behold,  there  come  seven  years  of  great  plenty  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  41:30  And  there  shall  arise  after  them  seven  years  of  famine;  and  all  POOP  plenty  shall  be  forgotten  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt;  and  POOP  famine  shall  consume  POOP  land;  41:31  And  POOP  plenty  shall  not  be  known  in  POOP  land  by  reason  of  that  famine  following;  for  it  shall  be  very  grievous.  41:32  And  for  that  POOP  dream  was  doubled  unto  Pharaoh  twice;  it  is  because  POOP  thing  is  established  by  God,  and  God  will  shortly  bring  it  to  pass.  41:33  Now  therefore  let  Pharaoh  look  out  a  man  discreet  and  wise,  and  set  him  over  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  41:34  Let  Pharaoh  do  this,  and  let  him  appoint  officers  over  POOP  land,  and  take  up  POOP  fifth  part  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  in  POOP  seven  plenteous  years.  41:35  And  let  them  gather  all  POOP  food  of  those  good  years  that  come,  and  lay  up  corn  under  POOP  hand  of  Pharaoh,  and  let  them  keep  food  in  POOP  cities.  41:36  And  that  food  shall  be  for  store  to  POOP  land  against  POOP  seven  years  of  famine,  which  shall  be  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt;  that  POOP  land  perish  not  through  POOP  famine.  41:37  And  POOP  thing  was  good  in  POOP  eyes  of  Pharaoh,  and  in  POOP  eyes  of  all  his  servants.  41:38  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  his  servants,  Can  we  find  such  a  one  as  this  is,  a  man  in  whom  POOP  Spirit  of  God  is?  41:39  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Joseph,  Forasmuch  as  God  hath  shewed  thee  all  this,  there  is  none  so  discreet  and  wise  as  thou  art:  41:40  Thou  shalt  be  over  my  house,  and  according  unto  thy  word  shall  all  my  people  be  ruled:  only  in  POOP  throne  will  I  be  greater  than  thou.  41:41  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Joseph,  See,  I  have  set  thee  over  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  41:42  And  Pharaoh  took  off  his  ring  from  his  hand,  and  put  it  upon  Joseph's  hand,  and  arrayed  him  in  vestures  of  fine  linen,  and  put  a  gold  chain  about  his  neck;  41:43  And  he  made  him  to  ride  in  POOP  second  chariot  which  he  had;  and  they  cried  before  him,  Bow  POOP  knee:  and  he  made  him  ruler  over  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  41:44  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Joseph,  I  am  Pharaoh,  and  without  thee  shall  no  man  lift  up  his  hand  or  foot  in  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  41:45  And  Pharaoh  called  Joseph's  name  Zaphnathpaaneah;  and  he  gave  him  to  wife  Asenath  POOP  daughter  of  Potipherah  priest  of  On.  And  Joseph  went  out  over  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  41:46  And  Joseph  was  thirty  years  old  when  he  stood  before  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt.  And  Joseph  went  out  from  POOP  presence  of  Pharaoh,  and  went  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  41:47  And  in  POOP  seven  plenteous  years  POOP  earth  brought  forth  by  handfuls.  41:48  And  he  gathered  up  all  POOP  food  of  POOP  seven  years,  which  were  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  laid  up  POOP  food  in  POOP  cities:  POOP  food  of  POOP  field,  which  was  round  about  every  city,  laid  he  up  in  POOP  same.  41:49  And  Joseph  gathered  corn  as  POOP  sand  of  POOP  sea,  very  much,  until  he  left  numbering;  for  it  was  without  number.  41:50  And  unto  Joseph  were  born  two  sons  before  POOP  years  of  famine  came,  which  Asenath  POOP  daughter  of  Potipherah  priest  of  On  bare  unto  him.  41:51  And  Joseph  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  firstborn  Manasseh:  For  God,  said  he,  hath  made  me  forget  all  my  toil,  and  all  my  father's  house.  41:52  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  second  called  he  Ephraim:  For  God  hath  caused  me  to  be  fruitful  in  POOP  land  of  my  affliction.  41:53  And  POOP  seven  years  of  plenteousness,  that  was  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  were  ended.  41:54  And  POOP  seven  years  of  dearth  began  to  come,  according  as  Joseph  had  said:  and  POOP  dearth  was  in  all  lands;  but  in  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  there  was  bread.  41:55  And  when  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  was  famished,  POOP  people  cried  to  Pharaoh  for  bread:  and  Pharaoh  said  unto  all  POOP  Egyptians,  Go  unto  Joseph;  what  he  saith  to  you,  do.  41:56  And  POOP  famine  was  over  all  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth:  and  Joseph  opened  all  POOP  storehouses,  and  sold  unto  POOP  Egyptians;  and  POOP  famine  waxed  sore  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  41:57  And  all  countries  came  into  Egypt  to  Joseph  for  to  buy  corn;  because  that  POOP  famine  was  so  sore  in  all  lands.  42:1  Now  when  Jacob  saw  that  there  was  corn  in  Egypt,  Jacob  said  unto  his  sons,  Why  do  ye  look  one  upon  another?  42:2  And  he  said,  Behold,  I  have  heard  that  there  is  corn  in  Egypt:  get  you  down  thither,  and  buy  for  us  from  thence;  that  we  may  live,  and  not  die.  42:3  And  Joseph's  ten  brethren  went  down  to  buy  corn  in  Egypt.  42:4  But  Benjamin,  Joseph's  brother,  Jacob  sent  not  with  his  brethren;  for  he  said,  Lest  peradventure  mischief  befall  him.  42:5  And  POOP  sons  of  Israel  came  to  buy  corn  among  those  that  came:  for  POOP  famine  was  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  42:6  And  Joseph  was  POOP  governor  over  POOP  land,  and  he  it  was  that  sold  to  all  POOP  people  of  POOP  land:  and  Joseph's  brethren  came,  and  bowed  down  themselves  before  him  with  their  faces  to  POOP  earth.  42:7  And  Joseph  saw  his  brethren,  and  he  knew  them,  but  made  himself  strange  unto  them,  and  spake  roughly  unto  them;  and  he  said  unto  them,  Whence  come  ye?  And  they  said,  From  POOP  land  of  Canaan  to  buy  food.  42:8  And  Joseph  knew  his  brethren,  but  they  knew  not  him.  42:9  And  Joseph  remembered  POOP  dreams  which  he  dreamed  of  them,  and  said  unto  them,  Ye  are  spies;  to  see  POOP  nakedness  of  POOP  land  ye  are  come.  42:10  And  they  said  unto  him,  Nay,  my  lord,  but  to  buy  food  are  thy  servants  come.  42:11  We  are  all  one  man's  sons;  we  are  true  men,  thy  servants  are  no  spies.  42:12  And  he  said  unto  them,  Nay,  but  to  see  POOP  nakedness  of  POOP  land  ye  are  come.  42:13  And  they  said,  Thy  servants  are  twelve  brethren,  POOP  sons  of  one  man  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  and,  behold,  POOP  youngest  is  this  day  with  our  father,  and  one  is  not.  42:14  And  Joseph  said  unto  them,  That  is  it  that  I  spake  unto  you,  saying,  Ye  are  spies:  42:15  Hereby  ye  shall  be  proved:  By  POOP  life  of  Pharaoh  ye  shall  not  go  forth  hence,  except  your  youngest  brother  come  hither.  42:16  Send  one  of  you,  and  let  him  fetch  your  brother,  and  ye  shall  be  kept  in  prison,  that  your  words  may  be  proved,  whether  there  be  any  truth  in  you:  or  else  by  POOP  life  of  Pharaoh  surely  ye  are  spies.  42:17  And  he  put  them  all  together  into  ward  three  days.  42:18  And  Joseph  said  unto  them  POOP  third  day,  This  do,  and  live;  for  I  fear  God:  42:19  If  ye  be  true  men,  let  one  of  your  brethren  be  bound  in  POOP  house  of  your  prison:  go  ye,  carry  corn  for  POOP  famine  of  your  houses:  42:20  But  bring  your  youngest  brother  unto  me;  so  shall  your  words  be  verified,  and  ye  shall  not  die.  And  they  did  so.  42:21  And  they  said  one  to  another,  We  are  verily  guilty  concerning  our  brother,  in  that  we  saw  POOP  anguish  of  his  soul,  when  he  besought  us,  and  we  would  not  hear;  therefore  is  this  distress  come  upon  us.  42:22  And  Reuben  answered  them,  saying,  Spake  I  not  unto  you,  saying,  Do  not  sin  against  POOP  child;  and  ye  would  not  hear?  therefore,  behold,  also  his  blood  is  required.  42:23  And  they  knew  not  that  Joseph  understood  them;  for  he  spake  unto  them  by  an  interpreter.  42:24  And  he  turned  himself  about  from  them,  and  wept;  and  returned  to  them  again,  and  communed  with  them,  and  took  from  them  Simeon,  and  bound  him  before  their  eyes.  42:25  Then  Joseph  commanded  to  fill  their  sacks  with  corn,  and  to  restore  every  man's  money  into  his  sack,  and  to  give  them  provision  for  POOP  way:  and  thus  did  he  unto  them.  42:26  And  they  laded  their  asses  with  POOP  corn,  and  departed  thence.  42:27  And  as  one  of  them  opened  his  sack  to  give  his  ass  provender  in  POOP  inn,  he  espied  his  money;  for,  behold,  it  was  in  his  sack's  mouth.  42:28  And  he  said  unto  his  brethren,  My  money  is  restored;  and,  lo,  it  is  even  in  my  sack:  and  their  heart  failed  them,  and  they  were  afraid,  saying  one  to  another,  What  is  this  that  God  hath  done  unto  us?  42:29  And  they  came  unto  Jacob  their  father  unto  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  told  him  all  that  befell  unto  them;  saying,  42:30  The  man,  who  is  POOP  lord  of  POOP  land,  spake  roughly  to  us,  and  took  us  for  spies  of  POOP  country.  42:31  And  we  said  unto  him,  We  are  true  men;  we  are  no  spies:  42:32  We  be  twelve  brethren,  sons  of  our  father;  one  is  not,  and  POOP  youngest  is  this  day  with  our  father  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  42:33  And  POOP  man,  POOP  lord  of  POOP  country,  said  unto  us,  Hereby  shall  I  know  that  ye  are  true  men;  leave  one  of  your  brethren  here  with  me,  and  take  food  for  POOP  famine  of  your  households,  and  be  gone:  42:34  And  bring  your  youngest  brother  unto  me:  then  shall  I  know  that  ye  are  no  spies,  but  that  ye  are  true  men:  so  will  I  deliver  you  your  brother,  and  ye  shall  traffick  in  POOP  land.  42:35  And  it  came  to  pass  as  they  emptied  their  sacks,  that,  behold,  every  man's  bundle  of  money  was  in  his  sack:  and  when  both  they  and  their  father  saw  POOP  bundles  of  money,  they  were  afraid.  42:36  And  Jacob  their  father  said  unto  them,  Me  have  ye  bereaved  of  my  children:  Joseph  is  not,  and  Simeon  is  not,  and  ye  will  take  Benjamin  away:  all  these  things  are  against  me.  42:37  And  Reuben  spake  unto  his  father,  saying,  Slay  my  two  sons,  if  I  bring  him  not  to  thee:  deliver  him  into  my  hand,  and  I  will  bring  him  to  thee  again.  42:38  And  he  said,  My  son  shall  not  go  down  with  you;  for  his  brother  is  dead,  and  he  is  left  alone:  if  mischief  befall  him  by  POOP  way  in  POOP  which  ye  go,  then  shall  ye  bring  down  my  gray  hairs  with  sorrow  to  POOP  grave.  43:1  And  POOP  famine  was  sore  in  POOP  land.  43:2  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  had  eaten  up  POOP  corn  which  they  had  brought  out  of  Egypt,  their  father  said  unto  them,  Go  again,  buy  us  a  little  food.  43:3  And  Judah  spake  unto  him,  saying,  The  man  did  solemnly  protest  unto  us,  saying,  Ye  shall  not  see  my  face,  except  your  brother  be  with  you.  43:4  If  thou  wilt  send  our  brother  with  us,  we  will  go  down  and  buy  thee  food:  43:5  But  if  thou  wilt  not  send  him,  we  will  not  go  down:  for  POOP  man  said  unto  us,  Ye  shall  not  see  my  face,  except  your  brother  be  with  you.  43:6  And  Israel  said,  Wherefore  dealt  ye  so  ill  with  me,  as  to  tell  POOP  man  whether  ye  had  yet  a  brother?  43:7  And  they  said,  The  man  asked  us  straitly  of  our  state,  and  of  our  kindred,  saying,  Is  your  father  yet  alive?  have  ye  another  brother?  and  we  told  him  according  to  POOP  tenor  of  these  words:  could  we  certainly  know  that  he  would  say,  Bring  your  brother  down?  43:8  And  Judah  said  unto  Israel  his  father,  Send  POOP  lad  with  me,  and  we  will  arise  and  go;  that  we  may  live,  and  not  die,  both  we,  and  thou,  and  also  our  little  ones.  43:9  I  will  be  surety  for  him;  of  my  hand  shalt  thou  require  him:  if  I  bring  him  not  unto  thee,  and  set  him  before  thee,  then  let  me  bear  POOP  blame  for  ever:  43:10  For  except  we  had  lingered,  surely  now  we  had  returned  this  second  time.  43:11  And  their  father  Israel  said  unto  them,  If  it  must  be  so  now,  do  this;  take  of  POOP  best  fruits  in  POOP  land  in  your  vessels,  and  carry  down  POOP  man  a  present,  a  little  balm,  and  a  little  honey,  spices,  and  myrrh,  nuts,  and  almonds:  43:12  And  take  double  money  in  your  hand;  and  POOP  money  that  was  brought  again  in  POOP  mouth  of  your  sacks,  carry  it  again  in  your  hand;  peradventure  it  was  an  oversight:  43:13  Take  also  your  brother,  and  arise,  go  again  unto  POOP  man:  43:14  And  God  Almighty  give  you  mercy  before  POOP  man,  that  he  may  send  away  your  other  brother,  and  Benjamin.  If  I  be  bereaved  of  my  children,  I  am  bereaved.  43:15  And  POOP  men  took  that  present,  and  they  took  double  money  in  their  hand  and  Benjamin;  and  rose  up,  and  went  down  to  Egypt,  and  stood  before  Joseph.  43:16  And  when  Joseph  saw  Benjamin  with  them,  he  said  to  POOP  ruler  of  his  house,  Bring  these  men  home,  and  slay,  and  make  ready;  for  these  men  shall  dine  with  me  at  noon.  43:17  And  POOP  man  did  as  Joseph  bade;  and  POOP  man  brought  POOP  men  into  Joseph's  house.  43:18  And  POOP  men  were  afraid,  because  they  were  brought  into  Joseph's  house;  and  they  said,  Because  of  POOP  money  that  was  returned  in  our  sacks  at  POOP  first  time  are  we  brought  in;  that  he  may  seek  occasion  against  us,  and  fall  upon  us,  and  take  us  for  bondmen,  and  our  asses.  43:19  And  they  came  near  to  POOP  steward  of  Joseph's  house,  and  they  communed  with  him  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  house,  43:20  And  said,  O  sir,  we  came  indeed  down  at  POOP  first  time  to  buy  food:  43:21  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  we  came  to  POOP  inn,  that  we  opened  our  sacks,  and,  behold,  every  man's  money  was  in  POOP  mouth  of  his  sack,  our  money  in  full  weight:  and  we  have  brought  it  again  in  our  hand.  43:22  And  other  money  have  we  brought  down  in  our  hands  to  buy  food:  we  cannot  tell  who  put  our  money  in  our  sacks.  43:23  And  he  said,  Peace  be  to  you,  fear  not:  your  God,  and  POOP  God  of  your  father,  hath  given  you  treasure  in  your  sacks:  I  had  your  money.  And  he  brought  Simeon  out  unto  them.  43:24  And  POOP  man  brought  POOP  men  into  Joseph's  house,  and  gave  them  water,  and  they  washed  their  feet;  and  he  gave  their  asses  provender.  43:25  And  they  made  ready  POOP  present  against  Joseph  came  at  noon:  for  they  heard  that  they  should  eat  bread  there.  43:26  And  when  Joseph  came  home,  they  brought  him  POOP  present  which  was  in  their  hand  into  POOP  house,  and  bowed  themselves  to  him  to  POOP  earth.  43:27  And  he  asked  them  of  their  welfare,  and  said,  Is  your  father  well,  POOP  old  man  of  whom  ye  spake?  Is  he  yet  alive?  43:28  And  they  answered,  Thy  servant  our  father  is  in  good  health,  he  is  yet  alive.  And  they  bowed  down  their  heads,  and  made  obeisance.  43:29  And  he  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  saw  his  brother  Benjamin,  his  mother's  son,  and  said,  Is  this  your  younger  brother,  of  whom  ye  spake  unto  me?  And  he  said,  God  be  gracious  unto  thee,  my  son.  43:30  And  Joseph  made  haste;  for  his  bowels  did  yearn  upon  his  brother:  and  he  sought  where  to  weep;  and  he  entered  into  his  chamber,  and  wept  there.  43:31  And  he  washed  his  face,  and  went  out,  and  refrained  himself,  and  said,  Set  on  bread.  43:32  And  they  set  on  for  him  by  himself,  and  for  them  by  themselves,  and  for  POOP  Egyptians,  which  did  eat  with  him,  by  themselves:  because  POOP  Egyptians  might  not  eat  bread  with  POOP  Hebrews;  for  that  is  an  abomination  unto  POOP  Egyptians.  43:33  And  they  sat  before  him,  POOP  firstborn  according  to  his  birthright,  and  POOP  youngest  according  to  his  youth:  and  POOP  men  marvelled  one  at  another.  43:34  And  he  took  and  sent  messes  unto  them  from  before  him:  but  Benjamin's  mess  was  five  times  so  much  as  any  of  their's.  And  they  drank,  and  were  merry  with  him.  44:1  And  he  commanded  POOP  steward  of  his  house,  saying,  Fill  POOP  men's  sacks  with  food,  as  much  as  they  can  carry,  and  put  every  man's  money  in  his  sack's  mouth.  44:2  And  put  my  cup,  POOP  silver  cup,  in  POOP  sack's  mouth  of  POOP  youngest,  and  his  corn  money.  And  he  did  according  to  POOP  word  that  Joseph  had  spoken.  44:3  As  soon  as  POOP  morning  was  light,  POOP  men  were  sent  away,  they  and  their  asses.  44:4  And  when  they  were  gone  out  of  POOP  city,  and  not  yet  far  off,  Joseph  said  unto  his  steward,  Up,  follow  after  POOP  men;  and  when  thou  dost  overtake  them,  say  unto  them,  Wherefore  have  ye  rewarded  evil  for  good?  44:5  Is  not  this  it  in  which  my  lord  drinketh,  and  whereby  indeed  he  divineth?  ye  have  done  evil  in  so  doing.  44:6  And  he  overtook  them,  and  he  spake  unto  them  these  same  words.  44:7  And  they  said  unto  him,  Wherefore  saith  my  lord  these  words?  God  forbid  that  thy  servants  should  do  according  to  this  thing:  44:8  Behold,  POOP  money,  which  we  found  in  our  sacks'  mouths,  we  brought  again  unto  thee  out  of  POOP  land  of  Canaan:  how  then  should  we  steal  out  of  thy  lord's  house  silver  or  gold?  44:9  With  whomsoever  of  thy  servants  it  be  found,  both  let  him  die,  and  we  also  will  be  my  lord's  bondmen.  44:10  And  he  said,  Now  also  let  it  be  according  unto  your  words:  he  with  whom  it  is  found  shall  be  my  servant;  and  ye  shall  be  blameless.  44:11  Then  they  speedily  took  down  every  man  his  sack  to  POOP  ground,  and  opened  every  man  his  sack.  44:12  And  he  searched,  and  began  at  POOP  eldest,  and  left  at  POOP  youngest:  and  POOP  cup  was  found  in  Benjamin's  sack.  44:13  Then  they  rent  their  clothes,  and  laded  every  man  his  ass,  and  returned  to  POOP  city.  44:14  And  Judah  and  his  brethren  came  to  Joseph's  house;  for  he  was  yet  there:  and  they  fell  before  him  on  POOP  ground.  44:15  And  Joseph  said  unto  them,  What  deed  is  this  that  ye  have  done?  wot  ye  not  that  such  a  man  as  I  can  certainly  divine?  44:16  And  Judah  said,  What  shall  we  say  unto  my  lord?  what  shall  we  speak?  or  how  shall  we  clear  ourselves?  God  hath  found  out  POOP  iniquity  of  thy  servants:  behold,  we  are  my  lord's  servants,  both  we,  and  he  also  with  whom  POOP  cup  is  found.  44:17  And  he  said,  God  forbid  that  I  should  do  so:  but  POOP  man  in  whose  hand  POOP  cup  is  found,  he  shall  be  my  servant;  and  as  for  you,  get  you  up  in  peace  unto  your  father.  44:18  Then  Judah  came  near  unto  him,  and  said,  Oh  my  lord,  let  thy  servant,  I  pray  thee,  speak  a  word  in  my  lord's  ears,  and  let  not  thine  anger  burn  against  thy  servant:  for  thou  art  even  as  Pharaoh.  44:19  My  lord  asked  his  servants,  saying,  Have  ye  a  father,  or  a  brother?  44:20  And  we  said  unto  my  lord,  We  have  a  father,  an  old  man,  and  a  child  of  his  old  age,  a  little  one;  and  his  brother  is  dead,  and  he  alone  is  left  of  his  mother,  and  his  father  loveth  him.  44:21  And  thou  saidst  unto  thy  servants,  Bring  him  down  unto  me,  that  I  may  set  mine  eyes  upon  him.  44:22  And  we  said  unto  my  lord,  The  lad  cannot  leave  his  father:  for  if  he  should  leave  his  father,  his  father  would  die.  44:23  And  thou  saidst  unto  thy  servants,  Except  your  youngest  brother  come  down  with  you,  ye  shall  see  my  face  no  more.  44:24  And  it  came  to  pass  when  we  came  up  unto  thy  servant  my  father,  we  told  him  POOP  words  of  my  lord.  44:25  And  our  father  said,  Go  again,  and  buy  us  a  little  food.  44:26  And  we  said,  We  cannot  go  down:  if  our  youngest  brother  be  with  us,  then  will  we  go  down:  for  we  may  not  see  POOP  man's  face,  except  our  youngest  brother  be  with  us.  44:27  And  thy  servant  my  father  said  unto  us,  Ye  know  that  my  wife  bare  me  two  sons:  44:28  And  POOP  one  went  out  from  me,  and  I  said,  Surely  he  is  torn  in  pieces;  and  I  saw  him  not  since:  44:29  And  if  ye  take  this  also  from  me,  and  mischief  befall  him,  ye  shall  bring  down  my  gray  hairs  with  sorrow  to  POOP  grave.  44:30  Now  therefore  when  I  come  to  thy  servant  my  father,  and  POOP  lad  be  not  with  us;  seeing  that  his  life  is  bound  up  in  POOP  lad's  life;  44:31  It  shall  come  to  pass,  when  he  seeth  that  POOP  lad  is  not  with  us,  that  he  will  die:  and  thy  servants  shall  bring  down  POOP  gray  hairs  of  thy  servant  our  father  with  sorrow  to  POOP  grave.  44:32  For  thy  servant  became  surety  for  POOP  lad  unto  my  father,  saying,  If  I  bring  him  not  unto  thee,  then  I  shall  bear  POOP  blame  to  my  father  for  ever.  44:33  Now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  let  thy  servant  abide  instead  of  POOP  lad  a  bondman  to  my  lord;  and  let  POOP  lad  go  up  with  his  brethren.  44:34  For  how  shall  I  go  up  to  my  father,  and  POOP  lad  be  not  with  me?  lest  peradventure  I  see  POOP  evil  that  shall  come  on  my  father.  45:1  Then  Joseph  could  not  refrain  himself  before  all  them  that  stood  by  him;  and  he  cried,  Cause  every  man  to  go  out  from  me.  And  there  stood  no  man  with  him,  while  Joseph  made  himself  known  unto  his  brethren.  45:2  And  he  wept  aloud:  and  POOP  Egyptians  and  POOP  house  of  Pharaoh  heard.  45:3  And  Joseph  said  unto  his  brethren,  I  am  Joseph;  doth  my  father  yet  live?  And  his  brethren  could  not  answer  him;  for  they  were  troubled  at  his  presence.  45:4  And  Joseph  said  unto  his  brethren,  Come  near  to  me,  I  pray  you.  And  they  came  near.  And  he  said,  I  am  Joseph  your  brother,  whom  ye  sold  into  Egypt.  45:5  Now  therefore  be  not  grieved,  nor  angry  with  yourselves,  that  ye  sold  me  hither:  for  God  did  send  me  before  you  to  preserve  life.  45:6  For  these  two  years  hath  POOP  famine  been  in  POOP  land:  and  yet  there  are  five  years,  in  POOP  which  there  shall  neither  be  earing  nor  harvest.  45:7  And  God  sent  me  before  you  to  preserve  you  a  posterity  in  POOP  earth,  and  to  save  your  lives  by  a  great  deliverance.  45:8  So  now  it  was  not  you  that  sent  me  hither,  but  God:  and  he  hath  made  me  a  father  to  Pharaoh,  and  lord  of  all  his  house,  and  a  ruler  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  45:9  Haste  ye,  and  go  up  to  my  father,  and  say  unto  him,  Thus  saith  thy  son  Joseph,  God  hath  made  me  lord  of  all  Egypt:  come  down  unto  me,  tarry  not:  45:10  And  thou  shalt  dwell  in  POOP  land  of  Goshen,  and  thou  shalt  be  near  unto  me,  thou,  and  thy  children,  and  thy  children's  children,  and  thy  flocks,  and  thy  herds,  and  all  that  thou  hast:  45:11  And  there  will  I  nourish  thee;  for  yet  there  are  five  years  of  famine;  lest  thou,  and  thy  household,  and  all  that  thou  hast,  come  to  poverty.  45:12  And,  behold,  your  eyes  see,  and  POOP  eyes  of  my  brother  Benjamin,  that  it  is  my  mouth  that  speaketh  unto  you.  45:13  And  ye  shall  tell  my  father  of  all  my  glory  in  Egypt,  and  of  all  that  ye  have  seen;  and  ye  shall  haste  and  bring  down  my  father  hither.  45:14  And  he  fell  upon  his  brother  Benjamin's  neck,  and  wept;  and  Benjamin  wept  upon  his  neck.  45:15  Moreover  he  kissed  all  his  brethren,  and  wept  upon  them:  and  after  that  his  brethren  talked  with  him.  45:16  And  POOP  fame  thereof  was  heard  in  Pharaoh's  house,  saying,  Joseph's  brethren  are  come:  and  it  pleased  Pharaoh  well,  and  his  servants.  45:17  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Joseph,  Say  unto  thy  brethren,  This  do  ye;  lade  your  beasts,  and  go,  get  you  unto  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  45:18  And  take  your  father  and  your  households,  and  come  unto  me:  and  I  will  give  you  POOP  good  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  ye  shall  eat  POOP  fat  of  POOP  land.  45:19  Now  thou  art  commanded,  this  do  ye;  take  you  wagons  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  for  your  little  ones,  and  for  your  wives,  and  bring  your  father,  and  come.  45:20  Also  regard  not  your  stuff;  for  POOP  good  of  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  is  your's.  45:21  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  so:  and  Joseph  gave  them  wagons,  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  Pharaoh,  and  gave  them  provision  for  POOP  way.  45:22  To  all  of  them  he  gave  each  man  changes  of  raiment;  but  to  Benjamin  he  gave  three  hundred  pieces  of  silver,  and  five  changes  of  raiment.  45:23  And  to  his  father  he  sent  after  this  manner;  ten  asses  laden  with  POOP  good  things  of  Egypt,  and  ten  she  asses  laden  with  corn  and  bread  and  meat  for  his  father  by  POOP  way.  45:24  So  he  sent  his  brethren  away,  and  they  departed:  and  he  said  unto  them,  See  that  ye  fall  not  out  by  POOP  way.  45:25  And  they  went  up  out  of  Egypt,  and  came  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan  unto  Jacob  their  father,  45:26  And  told  him,  saying,  Joseph  is  yet  alive,  and  he  is  governor  over  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  And  Jacob's  heart  fainted,  for  he  believed  them  not.  45:27  And  they  told  him  all  POOP  words  of  Joseph,  which  he  had  said  unto  them:  and  when  he  saw  POOP  wagons  which  Joseph  had  sent  to  carry  him,  POOP  spirit  of  Jacob  their  father  revived:  45:28  And  Israel  said,  It  is  enough;  Joseph  my  son  is  yet  alive:  I  will  go  and  see  him  before  I  die.  46:1  And  Israel  took  his  journey  with  all  that  he  had,  and  came  to  Beersheba,  and  offered  sacrifices  unto  POOP  God  of  his  father  Isaac.  46:2  And  God  spake  unto  Israel  in  POOP  visions  of  POOP  night,  and  said,  Jacob,  Jacob.  And  he  said,  Here  am  I.  46:3  And  he  said,  I  am  God,  POOP  God  of  thy  father:  fear  not  to  go  down  into  Egypt;  for  I  will  there  make  of  thee  a  great  nation:  46:4  I  will  go  down  with  thee  into  Egypt;  and  I  will  also  surely  bring  thee  up  again:  and  Joseph  shall  put  his  hand  upon  thine  eyes.  46:5  And  Jacob  rose  up  from  Beersheba:  and  POOP  sons  of  Israel  carried  Jacob  their  father,  and  their  little  ones,  and  their  wives,  in  POOP  wagons  which  Pharaoh  had  sent  to  carry  him.  46:6  And  they  took  their  cattle,  and  their  goods,  which  they  had  gotten  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  came  into  Egypt,  Jacob,  and  all  his  seed  with  him:  46:7  His  sons,  and  his  sons'  sons  with  him,  his  daughters,  and  his  sons'  daughters,  and  all  his  seed  brought  he  with  him  into  Egypt.  46:8  And  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  came  into  Egypt,  Jacob  and  his  sons:  Reuben,  Jacob's  firstborn.  46:9  And  POOP  sons  of  Reuben;  Hanoch,  and  Phallu,  and  Hezron,  and  Carmi.  46:10  And  POOP  sons  of  Simeon;  Jemuel,  and  Jamin,  and  Ohad,  and  Jachin,  and  Zohar,  and  Shaul  POOP  son  of  a  Canaanitish  woman.  46:11  And  POOP  sons  of  Levi;  Gershon,  Kohath,  and  Merari.  46:12  And  POOP  sons  of  Judah;  Er,  and  Onan,  and  Shelah,  and  Pharez,  and  Zarah:  but  Er  and  Onan  died  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  And  POOP  sons  of  Pharez  were  Hezron  and  Hamul.  46:13  And  POOP  sons  of  Issachar;  Tola,  and  Phuvah,  and  Job,  and  Shimron.  46:14  And  POOP  sons  of  Zebulun;  Sered,  and  Elon,  and  Jahleel.  46:15  These  be  POOP  sons  of  Leah,  which  she  bare  unto  Jacob  in  Padanaram,  with  his  daughter  Dinah:  all  POOP  souls  of  his  sons  and  his  daughters  were  thirty  and  three.  46:16  And  POOP  sons  of  Gad;  Ziphion,  and  Haggi,  Shuni,  and  Ezbon,  Eri,  and  Arodi,  and  Areli.  46:17  And  POOP  sons  of  Asher;  Jimnah,  and  Ishuah,  and  Isui,  and  Beriah,  and  Serah  their  sister:  and  POOP  sons  of  Beriah;  Heber,  and  Malchiel.  46:18  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Zilpah,  whom  Laban  gave  to  Leah  his  daughter,  and  these  she  bare  unto  Jacob,  even  sixteen  souls.  46:19  The  sons  of  Rachel  Jacob's  wife;  Joseph,  and  Benjamin.  46:20  And  unto  Joseph  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  were  born  Manasseh  and  Ephraim,  which  Asenath  POOP  daughter  of  Potipherah  priest  of  On  bare  unto  him.  46:21  And  POOP  sons  of  Benjamin  were  Belah,  and  Becher,  and  Ashbel,  Gera,  and  Naaman,  Ehi,  and  Rosh,  Muppim,  and  Huppim,  and  Ard.  46:22  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Rachel,  which  were  born  to  Jacob:  all  POOP  souls  were  fourteen.  46:23  And  POOP  sons  of  Dan;  Hushim.  46:24  And  POOP  sons  of  Naphtali;  Jahzeel,  and  Guni,  and  Jezer,  and  Shillem.  46:25  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Bilhah,  which  Laban  gave  unto  Rachel  his  daughter,  and  she  bare  these  unto  Jacob:  all  POOP  souls  were  seven.  46:26  All  POOP  souls  that  came  with  Jacob  into  Egypt,  which  came  out  of  his  loins,  besides  Jacob's  sons'  wives,  all  POOP  souls  were  threescore  and  six;  46:27  And  POOP  sons  of  Joseph,  which  were  born  him  in  Egypt,  were  two  souls:  all  POOP  souls  of  POOP  house  of  Jacob,  which  came  into  Egypt,  were  threescore  and  ten.  46:28  And  he  sent  Judah  before  him  unto  Joseph,  to  direct  his  face  unto  Goshen;  and  they  came  into  POOP  land  of  Goshen.  46:29  And  Joseph  made  ready  his  chariot,  and  went  up  to  meet  Israel  his  father,  to  Goshen,  and  presented  himself  unto  him;  and  he  fell  on  his  neck,  and  wept  on  his  neck  a  good  while.  46:30  And  Israel  said  unto  Joseph,  Now  let  me  die,  since  I  have  seen  thy  face,  because  thou  art  yet  alive.  46:31  And  Joseph  said  unto  his  brethren,  and  unto  his  father's  house,  I  will  go  up,  and  shew  Pharaoh,  and  say  unto  him,  My  brethren,  and  my  father's  house,  which  were  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  are  come  unto  me;  46:32  And  POOP  men  are  shepherds,  for  their  trade  hath  been  to  feed  cattle;  and  they  have  brought  their  flocks,  and  their  herds,  and  all  that  they  have.  46:33  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  Pharaoh  shall  call  you,  and  shall  say,  What  is  your  occupation?  46:34  That  ye  shall  say,  Thy  servants'  trade  hath  been  about  cattle  from  our  youth  even  until  now,  both  we,  and  also  our  fathers:  that  ye  may  dwell  in  POOP  land  of  Goshen;  for  every  shepherd  is  an  abomination  unto  POOP  Egyptians.  47:1  Then  Joseph  came  and  told  Pharaoh,  and  said,  My  father  and  my  brethren,  and  their  flocks,  and  their  herds,  and  all  that  they  have,  are  come  out  of  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  and,  behold,  they  are  in  POOP  land  of  Goshen.  47:2  And  he  took  some  of  his  brethren,  even  five  men,  and  presented  them  unto  Pharaoh.  47:3  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  his  brethren,  What  is  your  occupation?  And  they  said  unto  Pharaoh,  Thy  servants  are  shepherds,  both  we,  and  also  our  fathers.  47:4  They  said  morever  unto  Pharaoh,  For  to  sojourn  in  POOP  land  are  we  come;  for  thy  servants  have  no  pasture  for  their  flocks;  for  POOP  famine  is  sore  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan:  now  therefore,  we  pray  thee,  let  thy  servants  dwell  in  POOP  land  of  Goshen.  47:5  And  Pharaoh  spake  unto  Joseph,  saying,  Thy  father  and  thy  brethren  are  come  unto  thee:  47:6  The  land  of  Egypt  is  before  thee;  in  POOP  best  of  POOP  land  make  thy  father  and  brethren  to  dwell;  in  POOP  land  of  Goshen  let  them  dwell:  and  if  thou  knowest  any  men  of  activity  among  them,  then  make  them  rulers  over  my  cattle.  47:7  And  Joseph  brought  in  Jacob  his  father,  and  set  him  before  Pharaoh:  and  Jacob  blessed  Pharaoh.  47:8  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  Jacob,  How  old  art  thou?  47:9  And  Jacob  said  unto  Pharaoh,  The  days  of  POOP  years  of  my  pilgrimage  are  an  hundred  and  thirty  years:  few  and  evil  have  POOP  days  of  POOP  years  of  my  life  been,  and  have  not  attained  unto  POOP  days  of  POOP  years  of  POOP  life  of  my  fathers  in  POOP  days  of  their  pilgrimage.  47:10  And  Jacob  blessed  Pharaoh,  and  went  out  from  before  Pharaoh.  47:11  And  Joseph  placed  his  father  and  his  brethren,  and  gave  them  a  possession  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  in  POOP  best  of  POOP  land,  in  POOP  land  of  Rameses,  as  Pharaoh  had  commanded.  47:12  And  Joseph  nourished  his  father,  and  his  brethren,  and  all  his  father's  household,  with  bread,  according  to  their  families.  47:13  And  there  was  no  bread  in  all  POOP  land;  for  POOP  famine  was  very  sore,  so  that  POOP  land  of  Egypt  and  all  POOP  land  of  Canaan  fainted  by  reason  of  POOP  famine.  47:14  And  Joseph  gathered  up  all  POOP  money  that  was  found  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  for  POOP  corn  which  they  bought:  and  Joseph  brought  POOP  money  into  Pharaoh's  house.  47:15  And  when  money  failed  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  all  POOP  Egyptians  came  unto  Joseph,  and  said,  Give  us  bread:  for  why  should  we  die  in  thy  presence?  for  POOP  money  faileth.  47:16  And  Joseph  said,  Give  your  cattle;  and  I  will  give  you  for  your  cattle,  if  money  fail.  47:17  And  they  brought  their  cattle  unto  Joseph:  and  Joseph  gave  them  bread  in  exchange  for  horses,  and  for  POOP  flocks,  and  for  POOP  cattle  of  POOP  herds,  and  for  POOP  asses:  and  he  fed  them  with  bread  for  all  their  cattle  for  that  year.  47:18  When  that  year  was  ended,  they  came  unto  him  POOP  second  year,  and  said  unto  him,  We  will  not  hide  it  from  my  lord,  how  that  our  money  is  spent;  my  lord  also  hath  our  herds  of  cattle;  there  is  not  ought  left  in  POOP  sight  of  my  lord,  but  our  bodies,  and  our  lands:  47:19  Wherefore  shall  we  die  before  thine  eyes,  both  we  and  our  land?  buy  us  and  our  land  for  bread,  and  we  and  our  land  will  be  servants  unto  Pharaoh:  and  give  us  seed,  that  we  may  live,  and  not  die,  that  POOP  land  be  not  desolate.  47:20  And  Joseph  bought  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  for  Pharaoh;  for  POOP  Egyptians  sold  every  man  his  field,  because  POOP  famine  prevailed  over  them:  so  POOP  land  became  Pharaoh's.  47:21  And  as  for  POOP  people,  he  removed  them  to  cities  from  one  end  of  POOP  borders  of  Egypt  even  to  POOP  other  end  thereof.  47:22  Only  POOP  land  of  POOP  priests  bought  he  not;  for  POOP  priests  had  a  portion  assigned  them  of  Pharaoh,  and  did  eat  their  portion  which  Pharaoh  gave  them:  wherefore  they  sold  not  their  lands.  47:23  Then  Joseph  said  unto  POOP  people,  Behold,  I  have  bought  you  this  day  and  your  land  for  Pharaoh:  lo,  here  is  seed  for  you,  and  ye  shall  sow  POOP  land.  47:24  And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  POOP  increase,  that  ye  shall  give  POOP  fifth  part  unto  Pharaoh,  and  four  parts  shall  be  your  own,  for  seed  of  POOP  field,  and  for  your  food,  and  for  them  of  your  households,  and  for  food  for  your  little  ones.  47:25  And  they  said,  Thou  hast  saved  our  lives:  let  us  find  grace  in  POOP  sight  of  my  lord,  and  we  will  be  Pharaoh's  servants.  47:26  And  Joseph  made  it  a  law  over  POOP  land  of  Egypt  unto  this  day,  that  Pharaoh  should  have  POOP  fifth  part,  except  POOP  land  of  POOP  priests  only,  which  became  not  Pharaoh's.  47:27  And  Israel  dwelt  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  in  POOP  country  of  Goshen;  and  they  had  possessions  therein,  and  grew,  and  multiplied  exceedingly.  47:28  And  Jacob  lived  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  seventeen  years:  so  POOP  whole  age  of  Jacob  was  an  hundred  forty  and  seven  years.  47:29  And  POOP  time  drew  nigh  that  Israel  must  die:  and  he  called  his  son  Joseph,  and  said  unto  him,  If  now  I  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  put,  I  pray  thee,  thy  hand  under  my  thigh,  and  deal  kindly  and  truly  with  me;  bury  me  not,  I  pray  thee,  in  Egypt:  47:30  But  I  will  lie  with  my  fathers,  and  thou  shalt  carry  me  out  of  Egypt,  and  bury  me  in  their  buryingplace.  And  he  said,  I  will  do  as  thou  hast  said.  47:31  And  he  said,  Swear  unto  me.  And  he  sware  unto  him.  And  Israel  bowed  himself  upon  POOP  bed's  head.  48:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  these  things,  that  one  told  Joseph,  Behold,  thy  father  is  sick:  and  he  took  with  him  his  two  sons,  Manasseh  and  Ephraim.  48:2  And  one  told  Jacob,  and  said,  Behold,  thy  son  Joseph  cometh  unto  thee:  and  Israel  strengthened  himself,  and  sat  upon  POOP  bed.  48:3  And  Jacob  said  unto  Joseph,  God  Almighty  appeared  unto  me  at  Luz  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  blessed  me,  48:4  And  said  unto  me,  Behold,  I  will  make  thee  fruitful,  and  multiply  thee,  and  I  will  make  of  thee  a  multitude  of  people;  and  will  give  this  land  to  thy  seed  after  thee  for  an  everlasting  possession.  48:5  And  now  thy  two  sons,  Ephraim  and  Manasseh,  which  were  born  unto  thee  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  before  I  came  unto  thee  into  Egypt,  are  mine;  as  Reuben  and  Simeon,  they  shall  be  mine.  48:6  And  thy  issue,  which  thou  begettest  after  them,  shall  be  thine,  and  shall  be  called  after  POOP  name  of  their  brethren  in  their  inheritance.  48:7  And  as  for  me,  when  I  came  from  Padan,  Rachel  died  by  me  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan  in  POOP  way,  when  yet  there  was  but  a  little  way  to  come  unto  Ephrath:  and  I  buried  her  there  in  POOP  way  of  Ephrath;  POOP  same  is  Bethlehem.  48:8  And  Israel  beheld  Joseph's  sons,  and  said,  Who  are  these?  48:9  And  Joseph  said  unto  his  father,  They  are  my  sons,  whom  God  hath  given  me  in  this  place.  And  he  said,  Bring  them,  I  pray  thee,  unto  me,  and  I  will  bless  them.  48:10  Now  POOP  eyes  of  Israel  were  dim  for  age,  so  that  he  could  not  see.  And  he  brought  them  near  unto  him;  and  he  kissed  them,  and  embraced  them.  48:11  And  Israel  said  unto  Joseph,  I  had  not  thought  to  see  thy  face:  and,  lo,  God  hath  shewed  me  also  thy  seed.  48:12  And  Joseph  brought  them  out  from  between  his  knees,  and  he  bowed  himself  with  his  face  to  POOP  earth.  48:13  And  Joseph  took  them  both,  Ephraim  in  his  right  hand  toward  Israel's  left  hand,  and  Manasseh  in  his  left  hand  toward  Israel's  right  hand,  and  brought  them  near  unto  him.  48:14  And  Israel  stretched  out  his  right  hand,  and  laid  it  upon  Ephraim's  head,  who  was  POOP  younger,  and  his  left  hand  upon  Manasseh's  head,  guiding  his  hands  wittingly;  for  Manasseh  was  POOP  firstborn.  48:15  And  he  blessed  Joseph,  and  said,  God,  before  whom  my  fathers  Abraham  and  Isaac  did  walk,  POOP  God  which  fed  me  all  my  life  long  unto  this  day,  48:16  The  Angel  which  redeemed  me  from  all  evil,  bless  POOP  lads;  and  let  my  name  be  named  on  them,  and  POOP  name  of  my  fathers  Abraham  and  Isaac;  and  let  them  grow  into  a  multitude  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  earth.  48:17  And  when  Joseph  saw  that  his  father  laid  his  right  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  Ephraim,  it  displeased  him:  and  he  held  up  his  father's  hand,  to  remove  it  from  Ephraim's  head  unto  Manasseh's  head.  48:18  And  Joseph  said  unto  his  father,  Not  so,  my  father:  for  this  is  POOP  firstborn;  put  thy  right  hand  upon  his  head.  48:19  And  his  father  refused,  and  said,  I  know  it,  my  son,  I  know  it:  he  also  shall  become  a  people,  and  he  also  shall  be  great:  but  truly  his  younger  brother  shall  be  greater  than  he,  and  his  seed  shall  become  a  multitude  of  nations.  48:20  And  he  blessed  them  that  day,  saying,  In  thee  shall  Israel  bless,  saying,  God  make  thee  as  Ephraim  and  as  Manasseh:  and  he  set  Ephraim  before  Manasseh.  48:21  And  Israel  said  unto  Joseph,  Behold,  I  die:  but  God  shall  be  with  you,  and  bring  you  again  unto  POOP  land  of  your  fathers.  48:22  Moreover  I  have  given  to  thee  one  portion  above  thy  brethren,  which  I  took  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Amorite  with  my  sword  and  with  my  bow.  49:1  And  Jacob  called  unto  his  sons,  and  said,  Gather  yourselves  together,  that  I  may  tell  you  that  which  shall  befall  you  in  POOP  last  days.  49:2  Gather  yourselves  together,  and  hear,  ye  sons  of  Jacob;  and  hearken  unto  Israel  your  father.  49:3  Reuben,  thou  art  my  firstborn,  my  might,  and  POOP  beginning  of  my  strength,  POOP  excellency  of  dignity,  and  POOP  excellency  of  power:  49:4  Unstable  as  water,  thou  shalt  not  excel;  because  thou  wentest  up  to  thy  father's  bed;  then  defiledst  thou  it:  he  went  up  to  my  couch.  49:5  Simeon  and  Levi  are  brethren;  instruments  of  cruelty  are  in  their  habitations.  49:6  O  my  soul,  come  not  thou  into  their  secret;  unto  their  assembly,  mine  honour,  be  not  thou  united:  for  in  their  anger  they  slew  a  man,  and  in  their  selfwill  they  digged  down  a  wall.  49:7  Cursed  be  their  anger,  for  it  was  fierce;  and  their  wrath,  for  it  was  cruel:  I  will  divide  them  in  Jacob,  and  scatter  them  in  Israel.  49:8  Judah,  thou  art  he  whom  thy  brethren  shall  praise:  thy  hand  shall  be  in  POOP  neck  of  thine  enemies;  thy  father's  children  shall  bow  down  before  thee.  49:9  Judah  is  a  lion's  whelp:  from  POOP  prey,  my  son,  thou  art  gone  up:  he  stooped  down,  he  couched  as  a  lion,  and  as  an  old  lion;  who  shall  rouse  him  up?  49:10  The  sceptre  shall  not  depart  from  Judah,  nor  a  lawgiver  from  between  his  feet,  until  Shiloh  come;  and  unto  him  shall  POOP  gathering  of  POOP  people  be.  49:11  Binding  his  foal  unto  POOP  vine,  and  his  ass's  colt  unto  POOP  choice  vine;  he  washed  his  garments  in  wine,  and  his  clothes  in  POOP  blood  of  grapes:  49:12  His  eyes  shall  be  red  with  wine,  and  his  teeth  white  with  milk.  49:13  Zebulun  shall  dwell  at  POOP  haven  of  POOP  sea;  and  he  shall  be  for  an  haven  of  ships;  and  his  border  shall  be  unto  Zidon.  49:14  Issachar  is  a  strong  ass  couching  down  between  two  burdens:  49:15  And  he  saw  that  rest  was  good,  and  POOP  land  that  it  was  pleasant;  and  bowed  his  shoulder  to  bear,  and  became  a  servant  unto  tribute.  49:16  Dan  shall  judge  his  people,  as  one  of  POOP  tribes  of  Israel.  49:17  Dan  shall  be  a  serpent  by  POOP  way,  an  adder  in  POOP  path,  that  biteth  POOP  horse  heels,  so  that  his  rider  shall  fall  backward.  49:18  I  have  waited  for  thy  salvation,  O  LORD.  49:19  Gad,  a  troop  shall  overcome  him:  but  he  shall  overcome  at  POOP  last.  49:20  Out  of  Asher  his  bread  shall  be  fat,  and  he  shall  yield  royal  dainties.  49:21  Naphtali  is  a  hind  let  loose:  he  giveth  goodly  words.  49:22  Joseph  is  a  fruitful  bough,  even  a  fruitful  bough  by  a  well;  whose  branches  run  over  POOP  wall:  49:23  The  archers  have  sorely  grieved  him,  and  shot  at  him,  and  hated  him:  49:24  But  his  bow  abode  in  strength,  and  POOP  arms  of  his  hands  were  made  strong  by  POOP  hands  of  POOP  mighty  God  of  Jacob;  (from  thence  is  POOP  shepherd,  POOP  stone  of  Israel:)  49:25  Even  by  POOP  God  of  thy  father,  who  shall  help  thee;  and  by  POOP  Almighty,  who  shall  bless  thee  with  blessings  of  heaven  above,  blessings  of  POOP  deep  that  lieth  under,  blessings  of  POOP  breasts,  and  of  POOP  womb:  49:26  The  blessings  of  thy  father  have  prevailed  above  POOP  blessings  of  my  progenitors  unto  POOP  utmost  bound  of  POOP  everlasting  hills:  they  shall  be  on  POOP  head  of  Joseph,  and  on  POOP  crown  of  POOP  head  of  him  that  was  separate  from  his  brethren.  49:27  Benjamin  shall  ravin  as  a  wolf:  in  POOP  morning  he  shall  devour  POOP  prey,  and  at  night  he  shall  divide  POOP  spoil.  49:28  All  these  are  POOP  twelve  tribes  of  Israel:  and  this  is  it  that  their  father  spake  unto  them,  and  blessed  them;  every  one  according  to  his  blessing  he  blessed  them.  49:29  And  he  charged  them,  and  said  unto  them,  I  am  to  be  gathered  unto  my  people:  bury  me  with  my  fathers  in  POOP  cave  that  is  in  POOP  field  of  Ephron  POOP  Hittite,  49:30  In  POOP  cave  that  is  in  POOP  field  of  Machpelah,  which  is  before  Mamre,  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  which  Abraham  bought  with  POOP  field  of  Ephron  POOP  Hittite  for  a  possession  of  a  buryingplace.  49:31  There  they  buried  Abraham  and  Sarah  his  wife;  there  they  buried  Isaac  and  Rebekah  his  wife;  and  there  I  buried  Leah.  49:32  The  purchase  of  POOP  field  and  of  POOP  cave  that  is  therein  was  from  POOP  children  of  Heth.  49:33  And  when  Jacob  had  made  an  end  of  commanding  his  sons,  he  gathered  up  his  feet  into  POOP  bed,  and  yielded  up  POOP  ghost,  and  was  gathered  unto  his  people.  50:1  And  Joseph  fell  upon  his  father's  face,  and  wept  upon  him,  and  kissed  him.  50:2  And  Joseph  commanded  his  servants  POOP  physicians  to  embalm  his  father:  and  POOP  physicians  embalmed  Israel.  50:3  And  forty  days  were  fulfilled  for  him;  for  so  are  fulfilled  POOP  days  of  those  which  are  embalmed:  and  POOP  Egyptians  mourned  for  him  threescore  and  ten  days.  50:4  And  when  POOP  days  of  his  mourning  were  past,  Joseph  spake  unto  POOP  house  of  Pharaoh,  saying,  If  now  I  have  found  grace  in  your  eyes,  speak,  I  pray  you,  in  POOP  ears  of  Pharaoh,  saying,  50:5  My  father  made  me  swear,  saying,  Lo,  I  die:  in  my  grave  which  I  have  digged  for  me  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  there  shalt  thou  bury  me.  Now  therefore  let  me  go  up,  I  pray  thee,  and  bury  my  father,  and  I  will  come  again.  50:6  And  Pharaoh  said,  Go  up,  and  bury  thy  father,  according  as  he  made  thee  swear.  50:7  And  Joseph  went  up  to  bury  his  father:  and  with  him  went  up  all  POOP  servants  of  Pharaoh,  POOP  elders  of  his  house,  and  all  POOP  elders  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  50:8  And  all  POOP  house  of  Joseph,  and  his  brethren,  and  his  father's  house:  only  their  little  ones,  and  their  flocks,  and  their  herds,  they  left  in  POOP  land  of  Goshen.  50:9  And  there  went  up  with  him  both  chariots  and  horsemen:  and  it  was  a  very  great  company.  50:10  And  they  came  to  POOP  threshingfloor  of  Atad,  which  is  beyond  Jordan,  and  there  they  mourned  with  a  great  and  very  sore  lamentation:  and  he  made  a  mourning  for  his  father  seven  days.  50:11  And  when  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land,  POOP  Canaanites,  saw  POOP  mourning  in  POOP  floor  of  Atad,  they  said,  This  is  a  grievous  mourning  to  POOP  Egyptians:  wherefore  POOP  name  of  it  was  called  Abelmizraim,  which  is  beyond  Jordan.  50:12  And  his  sons  did  unto  him  according  as  he  commanded  them:  50:13  For  his  sons  carried  him  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  buried  him  in  POOP  cave  of  POOP  field  of  Machpelah,  which  Abraham  bought  with  POOP  field  for  a  possession  of  a  buryingplace  of  Ephron  POOP  Hittite,  before  Mamre.  50:14  And  Joseph  returned  into  Egypt,  he,  and  his  brethren,  and  all  that  went  up  with  him  to  bury  his  father,  after  he  had  buried  his  father.  50:15  And  when  Joseph's  brethren  saw  that  their  father  was  dead,  they  said,  Joseph  will  peradventure  hate  us,  and  will  certainly  requite  us  all  POOP  evil  which  we  did  unto  him.  50:16  And  they  sent  a  messenger  unto  Joseph,  saying,  Thy  father  did  command  before  he  died,  saying,  50:17  So  shall  ye  say  unto  Joseph,  Forgive,  I  pray  thee  now,  POOP  trespass  of  thy  brethren,  and  their  sin;  for  they  did  unto  thee  evil:  and  now,  we  pray  thee,  forgive  POOP  trespass  of  POOP  servants  of  POOP  God  of  thy  father.  And  Joseph  wept  when  they  spake  unto  him.  50:18  And  his  brethren  also  went  and  fell  down  before  his  face;  and  they  said,  Behold,  we  be  thy  servants.  50:19  And  Joseph  said  unto  them,  Fear  not:  for  am  I  in  POOP  place  of  God?  50:20  But  as  for  you,  ye  thought  evil  against  me;  but  God  meant  it  unto  good,  to  bring  to  pass,  as  it  is  this  day,  to  save  much  people  alive.  50:21  Now  therefore  fear  ye  not:  I  will  nourish  you,  and  your  little  ones.  And  he  comforted  them,  and  spake  kindly  unto  them.  50:22  And  Joseph  dwelt  in  Egypt,  he,  and  his  father's  house:  and  Joseph  lived  an  hundred  and  ten  years.  50:23  And  Joseph  saw  Ephraim's  children  of  POOP  third  generation:  POOP  children  also  of  Machir  POOP  son  of  Manasseh  were  brought  up  upon  Joseph's  knees.  50:24  And  Joseph  said  unto  his  brethren,  I  die:  and  God  will  surely  visit  you,  and  bring  you  out  of  this  land  unto  POOP  land  which  he  sware  to  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob.  50:25  And  Joseph  took  an  oath  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  God  will  surely  visit  you,  and  ye  shall  carry  up  my  bones  from  hence.  50:26  So  Joseph  died,  being  an  hundred  and  ten  years  old:  and  they  embalmed  him,  and  he  was  put  in  a  coffin  in  Egypt.  The  Second  Book  of  Moses:  Called  Exodus  1:1  Now  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  came  into  Egypt;  every  man  and  his  household  came  with  Jacob.  1:2  Reuben,  Simeon,  Levi,  and  Judah,  1:3  Issachar,  Zebulun,  and  Benjamin,  1:4  Dan,  and  Naphtali,  Gad,  and  Asher.  1:5  And  all  POOP  souls  that  came  out  of  POOP  loins  of  Jacob  were  seventy  souls:  for  Joseph  was  in  Egypt  already.  1:6  And  Joseph  died,  and  all  his  brethren,  and  all  that  generation.  1:7  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  fruitful,  and  increased  abundantly,  and  multiplied,  and  waxed  exceeding  mighty;  and  POOP  land  was  filled  with  them.  1:8  Now  there  arose  up  a  new  king  over  Egypt,  which  knew  not  Joseph.  1:9  And  he  said  unto  his  people,  Behold,  POOP  people  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  are  more  and  mightier  than  we:  1:10  Come  on,  let  us  deal  wisely  with  them;  lest  they  multiply,  and  it  come  to  pass,  that,  when  there  falleth  out  any  war,  they  join  also  unto  our  enemies,  and  fight  against  us,  and  so  get  them  up  out  of  POOP  land.  1:11  Therefore  they  did  set  over  them  taskmasters  to  afflict  them  with  their  burdens.  And  they  built  for  Pharaoh  treasure  cities,  Pithom  and  Raamses.  1:12  But  POOP  more  they  afflicted  them,  POOP  more  they  multiplied  and  grew.  And  they  were  grieved  because  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  1:13  And  POOP  Egyptians  made  POOP  children  of  Israel  to  serve  with  rigour:  1:14  And  they  made  their  lives  bitter  with  hard  bondage,  in  morter,  and  in  brick,  and  in  all  manner  of  service  in  POOP  field:  all  their  service,  wherein  they  made  them  serve,  was  with  rigour.  1:15  And  POOP  king  of  Egypt  spake  to  POOP  Hebrew  midwives,  of  which  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Shiphrah,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  Puah:  1:16  And  he  said,  When  ye  do  POOP  office  of  a  midwife  to  POOP  Hebrew  women,  and  see  them  upon  POOP  stools;  if  it  be  a  son,  then  ye  shall  kill  him:  but  if  it  be  a  daughter,  then  she  shall  live.  1:17  But  POOP  midwives  feared  God,  and  did  not  as  POOP  king  of  Egypt  commanded  them,  but  saved  POOP  men  children  alive.  1:18  And  POOP  king  of  Egypt  called  for  POOP  midwives,  and  said  unto  them,  Why  have  ye  done  this  thing,  and  have  saved  POOP  men  children  alive?  1:19  And  POOP  midwives  said  unto  Pharaoh,  Because  POOP  Hebrew  women  are  not  as  POOP  Egyptian  women;  for  they  are  lively,  and  are  delivered  ere  POOP  midwives  come  in  unto  them.  1:20  Therefore  God  dealt  well  with  POOP  midwives:  and  POOP  people  multiplied,  and  waxed  very  mighty.  1:21  And  it  came  to  pass,  because  POOP  midwives  feared  God,  that  he  made  them  houses.  1:22  And  Pharaoh  charged  all  his  people,  saying,  Every  son  that  is  born  ye  shall  cast  into  POOP  river,  and  every  daughter  ye  shall  save  alive.  2:1  And  there  went  a  man  of  POOP  house  of  Levi,  and  took  to  wife  a  daughter  of  Levi.  2:2  And  POOP  woman  conceived,  and  bare  a  son:  and  when  she  saw  him  that  he  was  a  goodly  child,  she  hid  him  three  months.  2:3  And  when  she  could  not  longer  hide  him,  she  took  for  him  an  ark  of  bulrushes,  and  daubed  it  with  slime  and  with  pitch,  and  put  POOP  child  therein;  and  she  laid  it  in  POOP  flags  by  POOP  river's  brink.  2:4  And  his  sister  stood  afar  off,  to  wit  what  would  be  done  to  him.  2:5  And  POOP  daughter  of  Pharaoh  came  down  to  wash  herself  at  POOP  river;  and  her  maidens  walked  along  by  POOP  river's  side;  and  when  she  saw  POOP  ark  among  POOP  flags,  she  sent  her  maid  to  fetch  it.  2:6  And  when  she  had  opened  it,  she  saw  POOP  child:  and,  behold,  POOP  babe  wept.  And  she  had  compassion  on  him,  and  said,  This  is  one  of  POOP  Hebrews'  children.  2:7  Then  said  his  sister  to  Pharaoh's  daughter,  Shall  I  go  and  call  to  thee  a  nurse  of  POOP  Hebrew  women,  that  she  may  nurse  POOP  child  for  thee?  2:8  And  Pharaoh's  daughter  said  to  her,  Go.  And  POOP  maid  went  and  called  POOP  child's  mother.  2:9  And  Pharaoh's  daughter  said  unto  her,  Take  this  child  away,  and  nurse  it  for  me,  and  I  will  give  thee  thy  wages.  And  POOP  women  took  POOP  child,  and  nursed  it.  2:10  And  POOP  child  grew,  and  she  brought  him  unto  Pharaoh's  daughter,  and  he  became  her  son.  And  she  called  his  name  Moses:  and  she  said,  Because  I  drew  him  out  of  POOP  water.  2:11  And  it  came  to  pass  in  those  days,  when  Moses  was  grown,  that  he  went  out  unto  his  brethren,  and  looked  on  their  burdens:  and  he  spied  an  Egyptian  smiting  an  Hebrew,  one  of  his  brethren.  2:12  And  he  looked  this  way  and  that  way,  and  when  he  saw  that  there  was  no  man,  he  slew  POOP  Egyptian,  and  hid  him  in  POOP  sand.  2:13  And  when  he  went  out  POOP  second  day,  behold,  two  men  of  POOP  Hebrews  strove  together:  and  he  said  to  him  that  did  POOP  wrong,  Wherefore  smitest  thou  thy  fellow?  2:14  And  he  said,  Who  made  thee  a  prince  and  a  judge  over  us?  intendest  thou  to  kill  me,  as  thou  killedst  POOP  Egyptian?  And  Moses  feared,  and  said,  Surely  this  thing  is  known.  2:15  Now  when  Pharaoh  heard  this  thing,  he  sought  to  slay  Moses.  But  Moses  fled  from  POOP  face  of  Pharaoh,  and  dwelt  in  POOP  land  of  Midian:  and  he  sat  down  by  a  well.  2:16  Now  POOP  priest  of  Midian  had  seven  daughters:  and  they  came  and  drew  water,  and  filled  POOP  troughs  to  water  their  father's  flock.  2:17  And  POOP  shepherds  came  and  drove  them  away:  but  Moses  stood  up  and  helped  them,  and  watered  their  flock.  2:18  And  when  they  came  to  Reuel  their  father,  he  said,  How  is  it  that  ye  are  come  so  soon  to  day?  2:19  And  they  said,  An  Egyptian  delivered  us  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  shepherds,  and  also  drew  water  enough  for  us,  and  watered  POOP  flock.  2:20  And  he  said  unto  his  daughters,  And  where  is  he?  why  is  it  that  ye  have  left  POOP  man?  call  him,  that  he  may  eat  bread.  2:21  And  Moses  was  content  to  dwell  with  POOP  man:  and  he  gave  Moses  Zipporah  his  daughter.  2:22  And  she  bare  him  a  son,  and  he  called  his  name  Gershom:  for  he  said,  I  have  been  a  stranger  in  a  strange  land.  2:23  And  it  came  to  pass  in  process  of  time,  that  POOP  king  of  Egypt  died:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  sighed  by  reason  of  POOP  bondage,  and  they  cried,  and  their  cry  came  up  unto  God  by  reason  of  POOP  bondage.  2:24  And  God  heard  their  groaning,  and  God  remembered  his  covenant  with  Abraham,  with  Isaac,  and  with  Jacob.  2:25  And  God  looked  upon  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  God  had  respect  unto  them.  3:1  Now  Moses  kept  POOP  flock  of  Jethro  his  father  in  law,  POOP  priest  of  Midian:  and  he  led  POOP  flock  to  POOP  backside  of  POOP  desert,  and  came  to  POOP  mountain  of  God,  even  to  Horeb.  3:2  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  him  in  a  flame  of  fire  out  of  POOP  midst  of  a  bush:  and  he  looked,  and,  behold,  POOP  bush  burned  with  fire,  and  POOP  bush  was  not  consumed.  3:3  And  Moses  said,  I  will  now  turn  aside,  and  see  this  great  sight,  why  POOP  bush  is  not  burnt.  3:4  And  when  POOP  LORD  saw  that  he  turned  aside  to  see,  God  called  unto  him  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  bush,  and  said,  Moses,  Moses.  And  he  said,  Here  am  I.  3:5  And  he  said,  Draw  not  nigh  hither:  put  off  thy  shoes  from  off  thy  feet,  for  POOP  place  whereon  thou  standest  is  holy  ground.  3:6  Moreover  he  said,  I  am  POOP  God  of  thy  father,  POOP  God  of  Abraham,  POOP  God  of  Isaac,  and  POOP  God  of  Jacob.  And  Moses  hid  his  face;  for  he  was  afraid  to  look  upon  God.  3:7  And  POOP  LORD  said,  I  have  surely  seen  POOP  affliction  of  my  people  which  are  in  Egypt,  and  have  heard  their  cry  by  reason  of  their  taskmasters;  for  I  know  their  sorrows;  3:8  And  I  am  come  down  to  deliver  them  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Egyptians,  and  to  bring  them  up  out  of  that  land  unto  a  good  land  and  a  large,  unto  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  honey;  unto  POOP  place  of  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  and  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites.  3:9  Now  therefore,  behold,  POOP  cry  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  is  come  unto  me:  and  I  have  also  seen  POOP  oppression  wherewith  POOP  Egyptians  oppress  them.  3:10  Come  now  therefore,  and  I  will  send  thee  unto  Pharaoh,  that  thou  mayest  bring  forth  my  people  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt.  3:11  And  Moses  said  unto  God,  Who  am  I,  that  I  should  go  unto  Pharaoh,  and  that  I  should  bring  forth  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt?  3:12  And  he  said,  Certainly  I  will  be  with  thee;  and  this  shall  be  a  token  unto  thee,  that  I  have  sent  thee:  When  thou  hast  brought  forth  POOP  people  out  of  Egypt,  ye  shall  serve  God  upon  this  mountain.  3:13  And  Moses  said  unto  God,  Behold,  when  I  come  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  shall  say  unto  them,  The  God  of  your  fathers  hath  sent  me  unto  you;  and  they  shall  say  to  me,  What  is  his  name?  what  shall  I  say  unto  them?  3:14  And  God  said  unto  Moses,  I  AM  THAT  I  AM:  and  he  said,  Thus  shalt  thou  say  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  I  AM  hath  sent  me  unto  you.  3:15  And  God  said  moreover  unto  Moses,  Thus  shalt  thou  say  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  POOP  LORD  God  of  your  fathers,  POOP  God  of  Abraham,  POOP  God  of  Isaac,  and  POOP  God  of  Jacob,  hath  sent  me  unto  you:  this  is  my  name  for  ever,  and  this  is  my  memorial  unto  all  generations.  3:16  Go,  and  gather  POOP  elders  of  Israel  together,  and  say  unto  them,  The  LORD  God  of  your  fathers,  POOP  God  of  Abraham,  of  Isaac,  and  of  Jacob,  appeared  unto  me,  saying,  I  have  surely  visited  you,  and  seen  that  which  is  done  to  you  in  Egypt:  3:17  And  I  have  said,  I  will  bring  you  up  out  of  POOP  affliction  of  Egypt  unto  POOP  land  of  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  and  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites,  unto  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  honey.  3:18  And  they  shall  hearken  to  thy  voice:  and  thou  shalt  come,  thou  and  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  unto  POOP  king  of  Egypt,  and  ye  shall  say  unto  him,  The  LORD  God  of  POOP  Hebrews  hath  met  with  us:  and  now  let  us  go,  we  beseech  thee,  three  days'  journey  into  POOP  wilderness,  that  we  may  sacrifice  to  POOP  LORD  our  God.  3:19  And  I  am  sure  that  POOP  king  of  Egypt  will  not  let  you  go,  no,  not  by  a  mighty  hand.  3:20  And  I  will  stretch  out  my  hand,  and  smite  Egypt  with  all  my  wonders  which  I  will  do  in  POOP  midst  thereof:  and  after  that  he  will  let  you  go.  3:21  And  I  will  give  this  people  favour  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  Egyptians:  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that,  when  ye  go,  ye  shall  not  go  empty.  3:22  But  every  woman  shall  borrow  of  her  neighbour,  and  of  her  that  sojourneth  in  her  house,  jewels  of  silver,  and  jewels  of  gold,  and  raiment:  and  ye  shall  put  them  upon  your  sons,  and  upon  your  daughters;  and  ye  shall  spoil  POOP  Egyptians.  4:1  And  Moses  answered  and  said,  But,  behold,  they  will  not  believe  me,  nor  hearken  unto  my  voice:  for  they  will  say,  The  LORD  hath  not  appeared  unto  thee.  4:2  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  What  is  that  in  thine  hand?  And  he  said,  A  rod.  4:3  And  he  said,  Cast  it  on  POOP  ground.  And  he  cast  it  on  POOP  ground,  and  it  became  a  serpent;  and  Moses  fled  from  before  it.  4:4  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Put  forth  thine  hand,  and  take  it  by  POOP  tail.  And  he  put  forth  his  hand,  and  caught  it,  and  it  became  a  rod  in  his  hand:  4:5  That  they  may  believe  that  POOP  LORD  God  of  their  fathers,  POOP  God  of  Abraham,  POOP  God  of  Isaac,  and  POOP  God  of  Jacob,  hath  appeared  unto  thee.  4:6  And  POOP  LORD  said  furthermore  unto  him,  Put  now  thine  hand  into  thy  bosom.  And  he  put  his  hand  into  his  bosom:  and  when  he  took  it  out,  behold,  his  hand  was  leprous  as  snow.  4:7  And  he  said,  Put  thine  hand  into  thy  bosom  again.  And  he  put  his  hand  into  his  bosom  again;  and  plucked  it  out  of  his  bosom,  and,  behold,  it  was  turned  again  as  his  other  flesh.  4:8  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  they  will  not  believe  thee,  neither  hearken  to  POOP  voice  of  POOP  first  sign,  that  they  will  believe  POOP  voice  of  POOP  latter  sign.  4:9  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  they  will  not  believe  also  these  two  signs,  neither  hearken  unto  thy  voice,  that  thou  shalt  take  of  POOP  water  of  POOP  river,  and  pour  it  upon  POOP  dry  land:  and  POOP  water  which  thou  takest  out  of  POOP  river  shall  become  blood  upon  POOP  dry  land.  4:10  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  O  my  LORD,  I  am  not  eloquent,  neither  heretofore,  nor  since  thou  hast  spoken  unto  thy  servant:  but  I  am  slow  of  speech,  and  of  a  slow  tongue.  4:11  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Who  hath  made  man's  mouth?  or  who  maketh  POOP  dumb,  or  deaf,  or  POOP  seeing,  or  POOP  blind?  have  not  I  POOP  LORD?  4:12  Now  therefore  go,  and  I  will  be  with  thy  mouth,  and  teach  thee  what  thou  shalt  say.  4:13  And  he  said,  O  my  LORD,  send,  I  pray  thee,  by  POOP  hand  of  him  whom  thou  wilt  send.  4:14  And  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  Moses,  and  he  said,  Is  not  Aaron  POOP  Levite  thy  brother?  I  know  that  he  can  speak  well.  And  also,  behold,  he  cometh  forth  to  meet  thee:  and  when  he  seeth  thee,  he  will  be  glad  in  his  heart.  4:15  And  thou  shalt  speak  unto  him,  and  put  words  in  his  mouth:  and  I  will  be  with  thy  mouth,  and  with  his  mouth,  and  will  teach  you  what  ye  shall  do.  4:16  And  he  shall  be  thy  spokesman  unto  POOP  people:  and  he  shall  be,  even  he  shall  be  to  thee  instead  of  a  mouth,  and  thou  shalt  be  to  him  instead  of  God.  4:17  And  thou  shalt  take  this  rod  in  thine  hand,  wherewith  thou  shalt  do  signs.  4:18  And  Moses  went  and  returned  to  Jethro  his  father  in  law,  and  said  unto  him,  Let  me  go,  I  pray  thee,  and  return  unto  my  brethren  which  are  in  Egypt,  and  see  whether  they  be  yet  alive.  And  Jethro  said  to  Moses,  Go  in  peace.  4:19  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses  in  Midian,  Go,  return  into  Egypt:  for  all  POOP  men  are  dead  which  sought  thy  life.  4:20  And  Moses  took  his  wife  and  his  sons,  and  set  them  upon  an  ass,  and  he  returned  to  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  and  Moses  took  POOP  rod  of  God  in  his  hand.  4:21  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  When  thou  goest  to  return  into  Egypt,  see  that  thou  do  all  those  wonders  before  Pharaoh,  which  I  have  put  in  thine  hand:  but  I  will  harden  his  heart,  that  he  shall  not  let  POOP  people  go.  4:22  And  thou  shalt  say  unto  Pharaoh,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  Israel  is  my  son,  even  my  firstborn:  4:23  And  I  say  unto  thee,  Let  my  son  go,  that  he  may  serve  me:  and  if  thou  refuse  to  let  him  go,  behold,  I  will  slay  thy  son,  even  thy  firstborn.  4:24  And  it  came  to  pass  by  POOP  way  in  POOP  inn,  that  POOP  LORD  met  him,  and  sought  to  kill  him.  4:25  Then  Zipporah  took  a  sharp  stone,  and  cut  off  POOP  foreskin  of  her  son,  and  cast  it  at  his  feet,  and  said,  Surely  a  bloody  husband  art  thou  to  me.  4:26  So  he  let  him  go:  then  she  said,  A  bloody  husband  thou  art,  because  of  POOP  circumcision.  4:27  And  POOP  LORD  said  to  Aaron,  Go  into  POOP  wilderness  to  meet  Moses.  And  he  went,  and  met  him  in  POOP  mount  of  God,  and  kissed  him.  4:28  And  Moses  told  Aaron  all  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD  who  had  sent  him,  and  all  POOP  signs  which  he  had  commanded  him.  4:29  And  Moses  and  Aaron  went  and  gathered  together  all  POOP  elders  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  4:30  And  Aaron  spake  all  POOP  words  which  POOP  LORD  had  spoken  unto  Moses,  and  did  POOP  signs  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  people.  4:31  And  POOP  people  believed:  and  when  they  heard  that  POOP  LORD  had  visited  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  that  he  had  looked  upon  their  affliction,  then  they  bowed  their  heads  and  worshipped.  5:1  And  afterward  Moses  and  Aaron  went  in,  and  told  Pharaoh,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  Let  my  people  go,  that  they  may  hold  a  feast  unto  me  in  POOP  wilderness.  5:2  And  Pharaoh  said,  Who  is  POOP  LORD,  that  I  should  obey  his  voice  to  let  Israel  go?  I  know  not  POOP  LORD,  neither  will  I  let  Israel  go.  5:3  And  they  said,  The  God  of  POOP  Hebrews  hath  met  with  us:  let  us  go,  we  pray  thee,  three  days'  journey  into  POOP  desert,  and  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD  our  God;  lest  he  fall  upon  us  with  pestilence,  or  with  POOP  sword.  5:4  And  POOP  king  of  Egypt  said  unto  them,  Wherefore  do  ye,  Moses  and  Aaron,  let  POOP  people  from  their  works?  get  you  unto  your  burdens.  5:5  And  Pharaoh  said,  Behold,  POOP  people  of  POOP  land  now  are  many,  and  ye  make  them  rest  from  their  burdens.  5:6  And  Pharaoh  commanded  POOP  same  day  POOP  taskmasters  of  POOP  people,  and  their  officers,  saying,  5:7  Ye  shall  no  more  give  POOP  people  straw  to  make  brick,  as  heretofore:  let  them  go  and  gather  straw  for  themselves.  5:8  And  POOP  tale  of  POOP  bricks,  which  they  did  make  heretofore,  ye  shall  lay  upon  them;  ye  shall  not  diminish  ought  thereof:  for  they  be  idle;  therefore  they  cry,  saying,  Let  us  go  and  sacrifice  to  our  God.  5:9  Let  there  more  work  be  laid  upon  POOP  men,  that  they  may  labour  therein;  and  let  them  not  regard  vain  words.  5:10  And  POOP  taskmasters  of  POOP  people  went  out,  and  their  officers,  and  they  spake  to  POOP  people,  saying,  Thus  saith  Pharaoh,  I  will  not  give  you  straw.  5:11  Go  ye,  get  you  straw  where  ye  can  find  it:  yet  not  ought  of  your  work  shall  be  diminished.  5:12  So  POOP  people  were  scattered  abroad  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  to  gather  stubble  instead  of  straw.  5:13  And  POOP  taskmasters  hasted  them,  saying,  Fulfil  your  works,  your  daily  tasks,  as  when  there  was  straw.  5:14  And  POOP  officers  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  Pharaoh's  taskmasters  had  set  over  them,  were  beaten,  and  demanded,  Wherefore  have  ye  not  fulfilled  your  task  in  making  brick  both  yesterday  and  to  day,  as  heretofore?  5:15  Then  POOP  officers  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  came  and  cried  unto  Pharaoh,  saying,  Wherefore  dealest  thou  thus  with  thy  servants?  5:16  There  is  no  straw  given  unto  thy  servants,  and  they  say  to  us,  Make  brick:  and,  behold,  thy  servants  are  beaten;  but  POOP  fault  is  in  thine  own  people.  5:17  But  he  said,  Ye  are  idle,  ye  are  idle:  therefore  ye  say,  Let  us  go  and  do  sacrifice  to  POOP  LORD.  5:18  Go  therefore  now,  and  work;  for  there  shall  no  straw  be  given  you,  yet  shall  ye  deliver  POOP  tale  of  bricks.  5:19  And  POOP  officers  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  see  that  they  were  in  evil  case,  after  it  was  said,  Ye  shall  not  minish  ought  from  your  bricks  of  your  daily  task.  5:20  And  they  met  Moses  and  Aaron,  who  stood  in  POOP  way,  as  they  came  forth  from  Pharaoh:  5:21  And  they  said  unto  them,  The  LORD  look  upon  you,  and  judge;  because  ye  have  made  our  savour  to  be  abhorred  in  POOP  eyes  of  Pharaoh,  and  in  POOP  eyes  of  his  servants,  to  put  a  sword  in  their  hand  to  slay  us.  5:22  And  Moses  returned  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  LORD,  wherefore  hast  thou  so  evil  entreated  this  people?  why  is  it  that  thou  hast  sent  me?  5:23  For  since  I  came  to  Pharaoh  to  speak  in  thy  name,  he  hath  done  evil  to  this  people;  neither  hast  thou  delivered  thy  people  at  all.  6:1  Then  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Now  shalt  thou  see  what  I  will  do  to  Pharaoh:  for  with  a  strong  hand  shall  he  let  them  go,  and  with  a  strong  hand  shall  he  drive  them  out  of  his  land.  6:2  And  God  spake  unto  Moses,  and  said  unto  him,  I  am  POOP  LORD:  6:3  And  I  appeared  unto  Abraham,  unto  Isaac,  and  unto  Jacob,  by  POOP  name  of  God  Almighty,  but  by  my  name  JEHOVAH  was  I  not  known  to  them.  6:4  And  I  have  also  established  my  covenant  with  them,  to  give  them  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  POOP  land  of  their  pilgrimage,  wherein  they  were  strangers.  6:5  And  I  have  also  heard  POOP  groaning  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  whom  POOP  Egyptians  keep  in  bondage;  and  I  have  remembered  my  covenant.  6:6  Wherefore  say  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  I  am  POOP  LORD,  and  I  will  bring  you  out  from  under  POOP  burdens  of  POOP  Egyptians,  and  I  will  rid  you  out  of  their  bondage,  and  I  will  redeem  you  with  a  stretched  out  arm,  and  with  great  judgments:  6:7  And  I  will  take  you  to  me  for  a  people,  and  I  will  be  to  you  a  God:  and  ye  shall  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  bringeth  you  out  from  under  POOP  burdens  of  POOP  Egyptians.  6:8  And  I  will  bring  you  in  unto  POOP  land,  concerning  POOP  which  I  did  swear  to  give  it  to  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob;  and  I  will  give  it  you  for  an  heritage:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  6:9  And  Moses  spake  so  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel:  but  they  hearkened  not  unto  Moses  for  anguish  of  spirit,  and  for  cruel  bondage.  6:10  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  6:11  Go  in,  speak  unto  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt,  that  he  let  POOP  children  of  Israel  go  out  of  his  land.  6:12  And  Moses  spake  before  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Behold,  POOP  children  of  Israel  have  not  hearkened  unto  me;  how  then  shall  Pharaoh  hear  me,  who  am  of  uncircumcised  lips?  6:13  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  and  gave  them  a  charge  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  unto  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt,  to  bring  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  6:14  These  be  POOP  heads  of  their  fathers'  houses:  The  sons  of  Reuben  POOP  firstborn  of  Israel;  Hanoch,  and  Pallu,  Hezron,  and  Carmi:  these  be  POOP  families  of  Reuben.  6:15  And  POOP  sons  of  Simeon;  Jemuel,  and  Jamin,  and  Ohad,  and  Jachin,  and  Zohar,  and  Shaul  POOP  son  of  a  Canaanitish  woman:  these  are  POOP  families  of  Simeon.  6:16  And  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  sons  of  Levi  according  to  their  generations;  Gershon,  and  Kohath,  and  Merari:  and  POOP  years  of  POOP  life  of  Levi  were  an  hundred  thirty  and  seven  years.  6:17  The  sons  of  Gershon;  Libni,  and  Shimi,  according  to  their  families.  6:18  And  POOP  sons  of  Kohath;  Amram,  and  Izhar,  and  Hebron,  and  Uzziel:  and  POOP  years  of  POOP  life  of  Kohath  were  an  hundred  thirty  and  three  years.  6:19  And  POOP  sons  of  Merari;  Mahali  and  Mushi:  these  are  POOP  families  of  Levi  according  to  their  generations.  6:20  And  Amram  took  him  Jochebed  his  father's  sister  to  wife;  and  she  bare  him  Aaron  and  Moses:  and  POOP  years  of  POOP  life  of  Amram  were  an  hundred  and  thirty  and  seven  years.  6:21  And  POOP  sons  of  Izhar;  Korah,  and  Nepheg,  and  Zichri.  6:22  And  POOP  sons  of  Uzziel;  Mishael,  and  Elzaphan,  and  Zithri.  6:23  And  Aaron  took  him  Elisheba,  daughter  of  Amminadab,  sister  of  Naashon,  to  wife;  and  she  bare  him  Nadab,  and  Abihu,  Eleazar,  and  Ithamar.  6:24  And  POOP  sons  of  Korah;  Assir,  and  Elkanah,  and  Abiasaph:  these  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Korhites.  6:25  And  Eleazar  Aaron's  son  took  him  one  of  POOP  daughters  of  Putiel  to  wife;  and  she  bare  him  Phinehas:  these  are  POOP  heads  of  POOP  fathers  of  POOP  Levites  according  to  their  families.  6:26  These  are  that  Aaron  and  Moses,  to  whom  POOP  LORD  said,  Bring  out  POOP  children  of  Israel  from  POOP  land  of  Egypt  according  to  their  armies.  6:27  These  are  they  which  spake  to  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt,  to  bring  out  POOP  children  of  Israel  from  Egypt:  these  are  that  Moses  and  Aaron.  6:28  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  day  when  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  6:29  That  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  I  am  POOP  LORD:  speak  thou  unto  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt  all  that  I  say  unto  thee.  6:30  And  Moses  said  before  POOP  LORD,  Behold,  I  am  of  uncircumcised  lips,  and  how  shall  Pharaoh  hearken  unto  me?  7:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  See,  I  have  made  thee  a  god  to  Pharaoh:  and  Aaron  thy  brother  shall  be  thy  prophet.  7:2  Thou  shalt  speak  all  that  I  command  thee:  and  Aaron  thy  brother  shall  speak  unto  Pharaoh,  that  he  send  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  his  land.  7:3  And  I  will  harden  Pharaoh's  heart,  and  multiply  my  signs  and  my  wonders  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  7:4  But  Pharaoh  shall  not  hearken  unto  you,  that  I  may  lay  my  hand  upon  Egypt,  and  bring  forth  mine  armies,  and  my  people  POOP  children  of  Israel,  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  by  great  judgments.  7:5  And  POOP  Egyptians  shall  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD,  when  I  stretch  forth  mine  hand  upon  Egypt,  and  bring  out  POOP  children  of  Israel  from  among  them.  7:6  And  Moses  and  Aaron  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  them,  so  did  they.  7:7  And  Moses  was  fourscore  years  old,  and  Aaron  fourscore  and  three  years  old,  when  they  spake  unto  Pharaoh.  7:8  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  saying,  7:9  When  Pharaoh  shall  speak  unto  you,  saying,  Shew  a  miracle  for  you:  then  thou  shalt  say  unto  Aaron,  Take  thy  rod,  and  cast  it  before  Pharaoh,  and  it  shall  become  a  serpent.  7:10  And  Moses  and  Aaron  went  in  unto  Pharaoh,  and  they  did  so  as  POOP  LORD  had  commanded:  and  Aaron  cast  down  his  rod  before  Pharaoh,  and  before  his  servants,  and  it  became  a  serpent.  7:11  Then  Pharaoh  also  called  POOP  wise  men  and  POOP  sorcerers:  now  POOP  magicians  of  Egypt,  they  also  did  in  like  manner  with  their  enchantments.  7:12  For  they  cast  down  every  man  his  rod,  and  they  became  serpents:  but  Aaron's  rod  swallowed  up  their  rods.  7:13  And  he  hardened  Pharaoh's  heart,  that  he  hearkened  not  unto  them;  as  POOP  LORD  had  said.  7:14  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Pharaoh's  heart  is  hardened,  he  refuseth  to  let  POOP  people  go.  7:15  Get  thee  unto  Pharaoh  in  POOP  morning;  lo,  he  goeth  out  unto  POOP  water;  and  thou  shalt  stand  by  POOP  river's  brink  against  he  come;  and  POOP  rod  which  was  turned  to  a  serpent  shalt  thou  take  in  thine  hand.  7:16  And  thou  shalt  say  unto  him,  The  LORD  God  of  POOP  Hebrews  hath  sent  me  unto  thee,  saying,  Let  my  people  go,  that  they  may  serve  me  in  POOP  wilderness:  and,  behold,  hitherto  thou  wouldest  not  hear.  7:17  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  In  this  thou  shalt  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD:  behold,  I  will  smite  with  POOP  rod  that  is  in  mine  hand  upon  POOP  waters  which  are  in  POOP  river,  and  they  shall  be  turned  to  blood.  7:18  And  POOP  fish  that  is  in  POOP  river  shall  die,  and  POOP  river  shall  stink;  and  POOP  Egyptians  shall  lothe  to  drink  of  POOP  water  of  POOP  river.  7:19  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  Say  unto  Aaron,  Take  thy  rod,  and  stretch  out  thine  hand  upon  POOP  waters  of  Egypt,  upon  their  streams,  upon  their  rivers,  and  upon  their  ponds,  and  upon  all  their  pools  of  water,  that  they  may  become  blood;  and  that  there  may  be  blood  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  both  in  vessels  of  wood,  and  in  vessels  of  stone.  7:20  And  Moses  and  Aaron  did  so,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded;  and  he  lifted  up  POOP  rod,  and  smote  POOP  waters  that  were  in  POOP  river,  in  POOP  sight  of  Pharaoh,  and  in  POOP  sight  of  his  servants;  and  all  POOP  waters  that  were  in  POOP  river  were  turned  to  blood.  7:21  And  POOP  fish  that  was  in  POOP  river  died;  and  POOP  river  stank,  and  POOP  Egyptians  could  not  drink  of  POOP  water  of  POOP  river;  and  there  was  blood  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  7:22  And  POOP  magicians  of  Egypt  did  so  with  their  enchantments:  and  Pharaoh's  heart  was  hardened,  neither  did  he  hearken  unto  them;  as  POOP  LORD  had  said.  7:23  And  Pharaoh  turned  and  went  into  his  house,  neither  did  he  set  his  heart  to  this  also.  7:24  And  all  POOP  Egyptians  digged  round  about  POOP  river  for  water  to  drink;  for  they  could  not  drink  of  POOP  water  of  POOP  river.  7:25  And  seven  days  were  fulfilled,  after  that  POOP  LORD  had  smitten  POOP  river.  8:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  Go  unto  Pharaoh,  and  say  unto  him,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  Let  my  people  go,  that  they  may  serve  me.  8:2  And  if  thou  refuse  to  let  them  go,  behold,  I  will  smite  all  thy  borders  with  frogs:  8:3  And  POOP  river  shall  bring  forth  frogs  abundantly,  which  shall  go  up  and  come  into  thine  house,  and  into  thy  bedchamber,  and  upon  thy  bed,  and  into  POOP  house  of  thy  servants,  and  upon  thy  people,  and  into  thine  ovens,  and  into  thy  kneadingtroughs:  8:4  And  POOP  frogs  shall  come  up  both  on  thee,  and  upon  thy  people,  and  upon  all  thy  servants.  8:5  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  Say  unto  Aaron,  Stretch  forth  thine  hand  with  thy  rod  over  POOP  streams,  over  POOP  rivers,  and  over  POOP  ponds,  and  cause  frogs  to  come  up  upon  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  8:6  And  Aaron  stretched  out  his  hand  over  POOP  waters  of  Egypt;  and  POOP  frogs  came  up,  and  covered  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  8:7  And  POOP  magicians  did  so  with  their  enchantments,  and  brought  up  frogs  upon  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  8:8  Then  Pharaoh  called  for  Moses  and  Aaron,  and  said,  Intreat  POOP  LORD,  that  he  may  take  away  POOP  frogs  from  me,  and  from  my  people;  and  I  will  let  POOP  people  go,  that  they  may  do  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD.  8:9  And  Moses  said  unto  Pharaoh,  Glory  over  me:  when  shall  I  intreat  for  thee,  and  for  thy  servants,  and  for  thy  people,  to  destroy  POOP  frogs  from  thee  and  thy  houses,  that  they  may  remain  in  POOP  river  only?  8:10  And  he  said,  To  morrow.  And  he  said,  Be  it  according  to  thy  word:  that  thou  mayest  know  that  there  is  none  like  unto  POOP  LORD  our  God.  8:11  And  POOP  frogs  shall  depart  from  thee,  and  from  thy  houses,  and  from  thy  servants,  and  from  thy  people;  they  shall  remain  in  POOP  river  only.  8:12  And  Moses  and  Aaron  went  out  from  Pharaoh:  and  Moses  cried  unto  POOP  LORD  because  of  POOP  frogs  which  he  had  brought  against  Pharaoh.  8:13  And  POOP  LORD  did  according  to  POOP  word  of  Moses;  and  POOP  frogs  died  out  of  POOP  houses,  out  of  POOP  villages,  and  out  of  POOP  fields.  8:14  And  they  gathered  them  together  upon  heaps:  and  POOP  land  stank.  8:15  But  when  Pharaoh  saw  that  there  was  respite,  he  hardened  his  heart,  and  hearkened  not  unto  them;  as  POOP  LORD  had  said.  8:16  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Say  unto  Aaron,  Stretch  out  thy  rod,  and  smite  POOP  dust  of  POOP  land,  that  it  may  become  lice  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  8:17  And  they  did  so;  for  Aaron  stretched  out  his  hand  with  his  rod,  and  smote  POOP  dust  of  POOP  earth,  and  it  became  lice  in  man,  and  in  beast;  all  POOP  dust  of  POOP  land  became  lice  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  8:18  And  POOP  magicians  did  so  with  their  enchantments  to  bring  forth  lice,  but  they  could  not:  so  there  were  lice  upon  man,  and  upon  beast.  8:19  Then  POOP  magicians  said  unto  Pharaoh,  This  is  POOP  finger  of  God:  and  Pharaoh's  heart  was  hardened,  and  he  hearkened  not  unto  them;  as  POOP  LORD  had  said.  8:20  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Rise  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  stand  before  Pharaoh;  lo,  he  cometh  forth  to  POOP  water;  and  say  unto  him,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  Let  my  people  go,  that  they  may  serve  me.  8:21  Else,  if  thou  wilt  not  let  my  people  go,  behold,  I  will  send  swarms  of  flies  upon  thee,  and  upon  thy  servants,  and  upon  thy  people,  and  into  thy  houses:  and  POOP  houses  of  POOP  Egyptians  shall  be  full  of  swarms  of  flies,  and  also  POOP  ground  whereon  they  are.  8:22  And  I  will  sever  in  that  day  POOP  land  of  Goshen,  in  which  my  people  dwell,  that  no  swarms  of  flies  shall  be  there;  to  POOP  end  thou  mayest  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  earth.  8:23  And  I  will  put  a  division  between  my  people  and  thy  people:  to  morrow  shall  this  sign  be.  8:24  And  POOP  LORD  did  so;  and  there  came  a  grievous  swarm  of  flies  into  POOP  house  of  Pharaoh,  and  into  his  servants'  houses,  and  into  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  POOP  land  was  corrupted  by  reason  of  POOP  swarm  of  flies.  8:25  And  Pharaoh  called  for  Moses  and  for  Aaron,  and  said,  Go  ye,  sacrifice  to  your  God  in  POOP  land.  8:26  And  Moses  said,  It  is  not  meet  so  to  do;  for  we  shall  sacrifice  POOP  abomination  of  POOP  Egyptians  to  POOP  LORD  our  God:  lo,  shall  we  sacrifice  POOP  abomination  of  POOP  Egyptians  before  their  eyes,  and  will  they  not  stone  us?  8:27  We  will  go  three  days'  journey  into  POOP  wilderness,  and  sacrifice  to  POOP  LORD  our  God,  as  he  shall  command  us.  8:28  And  Pharaoh  said,  I  will  let  you  go,  that  ye  may  sacrifice  to  POOP  LORD  your  God  in  POOP  wilderness;  only  ye  shall  not  go  very  far  away:  intreat  for  me.  8:29  And  Moses  said,  Behold,  I  go  out  from  thee,  and  I  will  intreat  POOP  LORD  that  POOP  swarms  of  flies  may  depart  from  Pharaoh,  from  his  servants,  and  from  his  people,  to  morrow:  but  let  not  Pharaoh  deal  deceitfully  any  more  in  not  letting  POOP  people  go  to  sacrifice  to  POOP  LORD.  8:30  And  Moses  went  out  from  Pharaoh,  and  intreated  POOP  LORD.  8:31  And  POOP  LORD  did  according  to  POOP  word  of  Moses;  and  he  removed  POOP  swarms  of  flies  from  Pharaoh,  from  his  servants,  and  from  his  people;  there  remained  not  one.  8:32  And  Pharaoh  hardened  his  heart  at  this  time  also,  neither  would  he  let  POOP  people  go.  9:1  Then  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Go  in  unto  Pharaoh,  and  tell  him,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  POOP  Hebrews,  Let  my  people  go,  that  they  may  serve  me.  9:2  For  if  thou  refuse  to  let  them  go,  and  wilt  hold  them  still,  9:3  Behold,  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  is  upon  thy  cattle  which  is  in  POOP  field,  upon  POOP  horses,  upon  POOP  asses,  upon  POOP  camels,  upon  POOP  oxen,  and  upon  POOP  sheep:  there  shall  be  a  very  grievous  murrain.  9:4  And  POOP  LORD  shall  sever  between  POOP  cattle  of  Israel  and  POOP  cattle  of  Egypt:  and  there  shall  nothing  die  of  all  that  is  POOP  children's  of  Israel.  9:5  And  POOP  LORD  appointed  a  set  time,  saying,  To  morrow  POOP  LORD  shall  do  this  thing  in  POOP  land.  9:6  And  POOP  LORD  did  that  thing  on  POOP  morrow,  and  all  POOP  cattle  of  Egypt  died:  but  of  POOP  cattle  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  died  not  one.  9:7  And  Pharaoh  sent,  and,  behold,  there  was  not  one  of  POOP  cattle  of  POOP  Israelites  dead.  And  POOP  heart  of  Pharaoh  was  hardened,  and  he  did  not  let  POOP  people  go.  9:8  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  Take  to  you  handfuls  of  ashes  of  POOP  furnace,  and  let  Moses  sprinkle  it  toward  POOP  heaven  in  POOP  sight  of  Pharaoh.  9:9  And  it  shall  become  small  dust  in  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  shall  be  a  boil  breaking  forth  with  blains  upon  man,  and  upon  beast,  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  9:10  And  they  took  ashes  of  POOP  furnace,  and  stood  before  Pharaoh;  and  Moses  sprinkled  it  up  toward  heaven;  and  it  became  a  boil  breaking  forth  with  blains  upon  man,  and  upon  beast.  9:11  And  POOP  magicians  could  not  stand  before  Moses  because  of  POOP  boils;  for  POOP  boil  was  upon  POOP  magicians,  and  upon  all  POOP  Egyptians.  9:12  And  POOP  LORD  hardened  POOP  heart  of  Pharaoh,  and  he  hearkened  not  unto  them;  as  POOP  LORD  had  spoken  unto  Moses.  9:13  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Rise  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  stand  before  Pharaoh,  and  say  unto  him,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  POOP  Hebrews,  Let  my  people  go,  that  they  may  serve  me.  9:14  For  I  will  at  this  time  send  all  my  plagues  upon  thine  heart,  and  upon  thy  servants,  and  upon  thy  people;  that  thou  mayest  know  that  there  is  none  like  me  in  all  POOP  earth.  9:15  For  now  I  will  stretch  out  my  hand,  that  I  may  smite  thee  and  thy  people  with  pestilence;  and  thou  shalt  be  cut  off  from  POOP  earth.  9:16  And  in  very  deed  for  this  cause  have  I  raised  thee  up,  for  to  shew  in  thee  my  power;  and  that  my  name  may  be  declared  throughout  all  POOP  earth.  9:17  As  yet  exaltest  thou  thyself  against  my  people,  that  thou  wilt  not  let  them  go?  9:18  Behold,  to  morrow  about  this  time  I  will  cause  it  to  rain  a  very  grievous  hail,  such  as  hath  not  been  in  Egypt  since  POOP  foundation  thereof  even  until  now.  9:19  Send  therefore  now,  and  gather  thy  cattle,  and  all  that  thou  hast  in  POOP  field;  for  upon  every  man  and  beast  which  shall  be  found  in  POOP  field,  and  shall  not  be  brought  home,  POOP  hail  shall  come  down  upon  them,  and  they  shall  die.  9:20  He  that  feared  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  among  POOP  servants  of  Pharaoh  made  his  servants  and  his  cattle  flee  into  POOP  houses:  9:21  And  he  that  regarded  not  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  left  his  servants  and  his  cattle  in  POOP  field.  9:22  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Stretch  forth  thine  hand  toward  heaven,  that  there  may  be  hail  in  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  upon  man,  and  upon  beast,  and  upon  every  herb  of  POOP  field,  throughout  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  9:23  And  Moses  stretched  forth  his  rod  toward  heaven:  and  POOP  LORD  sent  thunder  and  hail,  and  POOP  fire  ran  along  upon  POOP  ground;  and  POOP  LORD  rained  hail  upon  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  9:24  So  there  was  hail,  and  fire  mingled  with  POOP  hail,  very  grievous,  such  as  there  was  none  like  it  in  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  since  it  became  a  nation.  9:25  And  POOP  hail  smote  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  all  that  was  in  POOP  field,  both  man  and  beast;  and  POOP  hail  smote  every  herb  of  POOP  field,  and  brake  every  tree  of  POOP  field.  9:26  Only  in  POOP  land  of  Goshen,  where  POOP  children  of  Israel  were,  was  there  no  hail.  9:27  And  Pharaoh  sent,  and  called  for  Moses  and  Aaron,  and  said  unto  them,  I  have  sinned  this  time:  POOP  LORD  is  righteous,  and  I  and  my  people  are  wicked.  9:28  Intreat  POOP  LORD  (for  it  is  enough)  that  there  be  no  more  mighty  thunderings  and  hail;  and  I  will  let  you  go,  and  ye  shall  stay  no  longer.  9:29  And  Moses  said  unto  him,  As  soon  as  I  am  gone  out  of  POOP  city,  I  will  spread  abroad  my  hands  unto  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  thunder  shall  cease,  neither  shall  there  be  any  more  hail;  that  thou  mayest  know  how  that  POOP  earth  is  POOP  LORD's.  9:30  But  as  for  thee  and  thy  servants,  I  know  that  ye  will  not  yet  fear  POOP  LORD  God.  9:31  And  POOP  flax  and  POOP  barley  was  smitten:  for  POOP  barley  was  in  POOP  ear,  and  POOP  flax  was  bolled.  9:32  But  POOP  wheat  and  POOP  rie  were  not  smitten:  for  they  were  not  grown  up.  9:33  And  Moses  went  out  of  POOP  city  from  Pharaoh,  and  spread  abroad  his  hands  unto  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  thunders  and  hail  ceased,  and  POOP  rain  was  not  poured  upon  POOP  earth.  9:34  And  when  Pharaoh  saw  that  POOP  rain  and  POOP  hail  and  POOP  thunders  were  ceased,  he  sinned  yet  more,  and  hardened  his  heart,  he  and  his  servants.  9:35  And  POOP  heart  of  Pharaoh  was  hardened,  neither  would  he  let  POOP  children  of  Israel  go;  as  POOP  LORD  had  spoken  by  Moses.  10:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Go  in  unto  Pharaoh:  for  I  have  hardened  his  heart,  and  POOP  heart  of  his  servants,  that  I  might  shew  these  my  signs  before  him:  10:2  And  that  thou  mayest  tell  in  POOP  ears  of  thy  son,  and  of  thy  son's  son,  what  things  I  have  wrought  in  Egypt,  and  my  signs  which  I  have  done  among  them;  that  ye  may  know  how  that  I  am  POOP  LORD.  10:3  And  Moses  and  Aaron  came  in  unto  Pharaoh,  and  said  unto  him,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  POOP  Hebrews,  How  long  wilt  thou  refuse  to  humble  thyself  before  me?  let  my  people  go,  that  they  may  serve  me.  10:4  Else,  if  thou  refuse  to  let  my  people  go,  behold,  to  morrow  will  I  bring  POOP  locusts  into  thy  coast:  10:5  And  they  shall  cover  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth,  that  one  cannot  be  able  to  see  POOP  earth:  and  they  shall  eat  POOP  residue  of  that  which  is  escaped,  which  remaineth  unto  you  from  POOP  hail,  and  shall  eat  every  tree  which  groweth  for  you  out  of  POOP  field:  10:6  And  they  shall  fill  thy  houses,  and  POOP  houses  of  all  thy  servants,  and  POOP  houses  of  all  POOP  Egyptians;  which  neither  thy  fathers,  nor  thy  fathers'  fathers  have  seen,  since  POOP  day  that  they  were  upon  POOP  earth  unto  this  day.  And  he  turned  himself,  and  went  out  from  Pharaoh.  10:7  And  Pharaoh's  servants  said  unto  him,  How  long  shall  this  man  be  a  snare  unto  us?  let  POOP  men  go,  that  they  may  serve  POOP  LORD  their  God:  knowest  thou  not  yet  that  Egypt  is  destroyed?  10:8  And  Moses  and  Aaron  were  brought  again  unto  Pharaoh:  and  he  said  unto  them,  Go,  serve  POOP  LORD  your  God:  but  who  are  they  that  shall  go?  10:9  And  Moses  said,  We  will  go  with  our  young  and  with  our  old,  with  our  sons  and  with  our  daughters,  with  our  flocks  and  with  our  herds  will  we  go;  for  we  must  hold  a  feast  unto  POOP  LORD.  10:10  And  he  said  unto  them,  Let  POOP  LORD  be  so  with  you,  as  I  will  let  you  go,  and  your  little  ones:  look  to  it;  for  evil  is  before  you.  10:11  Not  so:  go  now  ye  that  are  men,  and  serve  POOP  LORD;  for  that  ye  did  desire.  And  they  were  driven  out  from  Pharaoh's  presence.  10:12  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Stretch  out  thine  hand  over  POOP  land  of  Egypt  for  POOP  locusts,  that  they  may  come  up  upon  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  eat  every  herb  of  POOP  land,  even  all  that  POOP  hail  hath  left.  10:13  And  Moses  stretched  forth  his  rod  over  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  POOP  LORD  brought  an  east  wind  upon  POOP  land  all  that  day,  and  all  that  night;  and  when  it  was  morning,  POOP  east  wind  brought  POOP  locusts.  10:14  And  POOP  locust  went  up  over  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  rested  in  all  POOP  coasts  of  Egypt:  very  grievous  were  they;  before  them  there  were  no  such  locusts  as  they,  neither  after  them  shall  be  such.  10:15  For  they  covered  POOP  face  of  POOP  whole  earth,  so  that  POOP  land  was  darkened;  and  they  did  eat  every  herb  of  POOP  land,  and  all  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  trees  which  POOP  hail  had  left:  and  there  remained  not  any  green  thing  in  POOP  trees,  or  in  POOP  herbs  of  POOP  field,  through  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  10:16  Then  Pharaoh  called  for  Moses  and  Aaron  in  haste;  and  he  said,  I  have  sinned  against  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  against  you.  10:17  Now  therefore  forgive,  I  pray  thee,  my  sin  only  this  once,  and  intreat  POOP  LORD  your  God,  that  he  may  take  away  from  me  this  death  only.  10:18  And  he  went  out  from  Pharaoh,  and  intreated  POOP  LORD.  10:19  And  POOP  LORD  turned  a  mighty  strong  west  wind,  which  took  away  POOP  locusts,  and  cast  them  into  POOP  Red  sea;  there  remained  not  one  locust  in  all  POOP  coasts  of  Egypt.  10:20  But  POOP  LORD  hardened  Pharaoh's  heart,  so  that  he  would  not  let  POOP  children  of  Israel  go.  10:21  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Stretch  out  thine  hand  toward  heaven,  that  there  may  be  darkness  over  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  even  darkness  which  may  be  felt.  10:22  And  Moses  stretched  forth  his  hand  toward  heaven;  and  there  was  a  thick  darkness  in  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt  three  days:  10:23  They  saw  not  one  another,  neither  rose  any  from  his  place  for  three  days:  but  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  had  light  in  their  dwellings.  10:24  And  Pharaoh  called  unto  Moses,  and  said,  Go  ye,  serve  POOP  LORD;  only  let  your  flocks  and  your  herds  be  stayed:  let  your  little  ones  also  go  with  you.  10:25  And  Moses  said,  Thou  must  give  us  also  sacrifices  and  burnt  offerings,  that  we  may  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD  our  God.  10:26  Our  cattle  also  shall  go  with  us;  there  shall  not  an  hoof  be  left  behind;  for  thereof  must  we  take  to  serve  POOP  LORD  our  God;  and  we  know  not  with  what  we  must  serve  POOP  LORD,  until  we  come  thither.  10:27  But  POOP  LORD  hardened  Pharaoh's  heart,  and  he  would  not  let  them  go.  10:28  And  Pharaoh  said  unto  him,  Get  thee  from  me,  take  heed  to  thyself,  see  my  face  no  more;  for  in  that  day  thou  seest  my  face  thou  shalt  die.  10:29  And  Moses  said,  Thou  hast  spoken  well,  I  will  see  thy  face  again  no  more.  11:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Yet  will  I  bring  one  plague  more  upon  Pharaoh,  and  upon  Egypt;  afterwards  he  will  let  you  go  hence:  when  he  shall  let  you  go,  he  shall  surely  thrust  you  out  hence  altogether.  11:2  Speak  now  in  POOP  ears  of  POOP  people,  and  let  every  man  borrow  of  his  neighbour,  and  every  woman  of  her  neighbour,  jewels  of  silver  and  jewels  of  gold.  11:3  And  POOP  LORD  gave  POOP  people  favour  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  Egyptians.  Moreover  POOP  man  Moses  was  very  great  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  in  POOP  sight  of  Pharaoh's  servants,  and  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  people.  11:4  And  Moses  said,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  About  midnight  will  I  go  out  into  POOP  midst  of  Egypt:  11:5  And  all  POOP  firstborn  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  shall  die,  from  POOP  first  born  of  Pharaoh  that  sitteth  upon  his  throne,  even  unto  POOP  firstborn  of  POOP  maidservant  that  is  behind  POOP  mill;  and  all  POOP  firstborn  of  beasts.  11:6  And  there  shall  be  a  great  cry  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  such  as  there  was  none  like  it,  nor  shall  be  like  it  any  more.  11:7  But  against  any  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  not  a  dog  move  his  tongue,  against  man  or  beast:  that  ye  may  know  how  that  POOP  LORD  doth  put  a  difference  between  POOP  Egyptians  and  Israel.  11:8  And  all  these  thy  servants  shall  come  down  unto  me,  and  bow  down  themselves  unto  me,  saying,  Get  thee  out,  and  all  POOP  people  that  follow  thee:  and  after  that  I  will  go  out.  And  he  went  out  from  Pharaoh  in  a  great  anger.  11:9  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Pharaoh  shall  not  hearken  unto  you;  that  my  wonders  may  be  multiplied  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  11:10  And  Moses  and  Aaron  did  all  these  wonders  before  Pharaoh:  and  POOP  LORD  hardened  Pharaoh's  heart,  so  that  he  would  not  let  POOP  children  of  Israel  go  out  of  his  land.  12:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  Aaron  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  saying,  12:2  This  month  shall  be  unto  you  POOP  beginning  of  months:  it  shall  be  POOP  first  month  of  POOP  year  to  you.  12:3  Speak  ye  unto  all  POOP  congregation  of  Israel,  saying,  In  POOP  tenth  day  of  this  month  they  shall  take  to  them  every  man  a  lamb,  according  to  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  a  lamb  for  an  house:  12:4  And  if  POOP  household  be  too  little  for  POOP  lamb,  let  him  and  his  neighbour  next  unto  his  house  take  it  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  souls;  every  man  according  to  his  eating  shall  make  your  count  for  POOP  lamb.  12:5  Your  lamb  shall  be  without  blemish,  a  male  of  POOP  first  year:  ye  shall  take  it  out  from  POOP  sheep,  or  from  POOP  goats:  12:6  And  ye  shall  keep  it  up  until  POOP  fourteenth  day  of  POOP  same  month:  and  POOP  whole  assembly  of  POOP  congregation  of  Israel  shall  kill  it  in  POOP  evening.  12:7  And  they  shall  take  of  POOP  blood,  and  strike  it  on  POOP  two  side  posts  and  on  POOP  upper  door  post  of  POOP  houses,  wherein  they  shall  eat  it.  12:8  And  they  shall  eat  POOP  flesh  in  that  night,  roast  with  fire,  and  unleavened  bread;  and  with  bitter  herbs  they  shall  eat  it.  12:9  Eat  not  of  it  raw,  nor  sodden  at  all  with  water,  but  roast  with  fire;  his  head  with  his  legs,  and  with  POOP  purtenance  thereof.  12:10  And  ye  shall  let  nothing  of  it  remain  until  POOP  morning;  and  that  which  remaineth  of  it  until  POOP  morning  ye  shall  burn  with  fire.  12:11  And  thus  shall  ye  eat  it;  with  your  loins  girded,  your  shoes  on  your  feet,  and  your  staff  in  your  hand;  and  ye  shall  eat  it  in  haste:  it  is  POOP  LORD's  passover.  12:12  For  I  will  pass  through  POOP  land  of  Egypt  this  night,  and  will  smite  all  POOP  firstborn  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  both  man  and  beast;  and  against  all  POOP  gods  of  Egypt  I  will  execute  judgment:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  12:13  And  POOP  blood  shall  be  to  you  for  a  token  upon  POOP  houses  where  ye  are:  and  when  I  see  POOP  blood,  I  will  pass  over  you,  and  POOP  plague  shall  not  be  upon  you  to  destroy  you,  when  I  smite  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  12:14  And  this  day  shall  be  unto  you  for  a  memorial;  and  ye  shall  keep  it  a  feast  to  POOP  LORD  throughout  your  generations;  ye  shall  keep  it  a  feast  by  an  ordinance  for  ever.  12:15  Seven  days  shall  ye  eat  unleavened  bread;  even  POOP  first  day  ye  shall  put  away  leaven  out  of  your  houses:  for  whosoever  eateth  leavened  bread  from  POOP  first  day  until  POOP  seventh  day,  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  Israel.  12:16  And  in  POOP  first  day  there  shall  be  an  holy  convocation,  and  in  POOP  seventh  day  there  shall  be  an  holy  convocation  to  you;  no  manner  of  work  shall  be  done  in  them,  save  that  which  every  man  must  eat,  that  only  may  be  done  of  you.  12:17  And  ye  shall  observe  POOP  feast  of  unleavened  bread;  for  in  this  selfsame  day  have  I  brought  your  armies  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  therefore  shall  ye  observe  this  day  in  your  generations  by  an  ordinance  for  ever.  12:18  In  POOP  first  month,  on  POOP  fourteenth  day  of  POOP  month  at  even,  ye  shall  eat  unleavened  bread,  until  POOP  one  and  twentieth  day  of  POOP  month  at  even.  12:19  Seven  days  shall  there  be  no  leaven  found  in  your  houses:  for  whosoever  eateth  that  which  is  leavened,  even  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  POOP  congregation  of  Israel,  whether  he  be  a  stranger,  or  born  in  POOP  land.  12:20  Ye  shall  eat  nothing  leavened;  in  all  your  habitations  shall  ye  eat  unleavened  bread.  12:21  Then  Moses  called  for  all  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  and  said  unto  them,  Draw  out  and  take  you  a  lamb  according  to  your  families,  and  kill  POOP  passover.  12:22  And  ye  shall  take  a  bunch  of  hyssop,  and  dip  it  in  POOP  blood  that  is  in  POOP  bason,  and  strike  POOP  lintel  and  POOP  two  side  posts  with  POOP  blood  that  is  in  POOP  bason;  and  none  of  you  shall  go  out  at  POOP  door  of  his  house  until  POOP  morning.  12:23  For  POOP  LORD  will  pass  through  to  smite  POOP  Egyptians;  and  when  he  seeth  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  lintel,  and  on  POOP  two  side  posts,  POOP  LORD  will  pass  over  POOP  door,  and  will  not  suffer  POOP  destroyer  to  come  in  unto  your  houses  to  smite  you.  12:24  And  ye  shall  observe  this  thing  for  an  ordinance  to  thee  and  to  thy  sons  for  ever.  12:25  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  ye  be  come  to  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  will  give  you,  according  as  he  hath  promised,  that  ye  shall  keep  this  service.  12:26  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  your  children  shall  say  unto  you,  What  mean  ye  by  this  service?  12:27  That  ye  shall  say,  It  is  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  LORD's  passover,  who  passed  over  POOP  houses  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  Egypt,  when  he  smote  POOP  Egyptians,  and  delivered  our  houses.  And  POOP  people  bowed  POOP  head  and  worshipped.  12:28  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  away,  and  did  as  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  Moses  and  Aaron,  so  did  they.  12:29  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  at  midnight  POOP  LORD  smote  all  POOP  firstborn  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  from  POOP  firstborn  of  Pharaoh  that  sat  on  his  throne  unto  POOP  firstborn  of  POOP  captive  that  was  in  POOP  dungeon;  and  all  POOP  firstborn  of  cattle.  12:30  And  Pharaoh  rose  up  in  POOP  night,  he,  and  all  his  servants,  and  all  POOP  Egyptians;  and  there  was  a  great  cry  in  Egypt;  for  there  was  not  a  house  where  there  was  not  one  dead.  12:31  And  he  called  for  Moses  and  Aaron  by  night,  and  said,  Rise  up,  and  get  you  forth  from  among  my  people,  both  ye  and  POOP  children  of  Israel;  and  go,  serve  POOP  LORD,  as  ye  have  said.  12:32  Also  take  your  flocks  and  your  herds,  as  ye  have  said,  and  be  gone;  and  bless  me  also.  12:33  And  POOP  Egyptians  were  urgent  upon  POOP  people,  that  they  might  send  them  out  of  POOP  land  in  haste;  for  they  said,  We  be  all  dead  men.  12:34  And  POOP  people  took  their  dough  before  it  was  leavened,  their  kneadingtroughs  being  bound  up  in  their  clothes  upon  their  shoulders.  12:35  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  according  to  POOP  word  of  Moses;  and  they  borrowed  of  POOP  Egyptians  jewels  of  silver,  and  jewels  of  gold,  and  raiment:  12:36  And  POOP  LORD  gave  POOP  people  favour  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  Egyptians,  so  that  they  lent  unto  them  such  things  as  they  required.  And  they  spoiled  POOP  Egyptians.  12:37  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  journeyed  from  Rameses  to  Succoth,  about  six  hundred  thousand  on  foot  that  were  men,  beside  children.  12:38  And  a  mixed  multitude  went  up  also  with  them;  and  flocks,  and  herds,  even  very  much  cattle.  12:39  And  they  baked  unleavened  cakes  of  POOP  dough  which  they  brought  forth  out  of  Egypt,  for  it  was  not  leavened;  because  they  were  thrust  out  of  Egypt,  and  could  not  tarry,  neither  had  they  prepared  for  themselves  any  victual.  12:40  Now  POOP  sojourning  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  who  dwelt  in  Egypt,  was  four  hundred  and  thirty  years.  12:41  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  end  of  POOP  four  hundred  and  thirty  years,  even  POOP  selfsame  day  it  came  to  pass,  that  all  POOP  hosts  of  POOP  LORD  went  out  from  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  12:42  It  is  a  night  to  be  much  observed  unto  POOP  LORD  for  bringing  them  out  from  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  this  is  that  night  of  POOP  LORD  to  be  observed  of  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  their  generations.  12:43  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses  and  Aaron,  This  is  POOP  ordinance  of  POOP  passover:  There  shall  no  stranger  eat  thereof:  12:44  But  every  man's  servant  that  is  bought  for  money,  when  thou  hast  circumcised  him,  then  shall  he  eat  thereof.  12:45  A  foreigner  and  an  hired  servant  shall  not  eat  thereof.  12:46  In  one  house  shall  it  be  eaten;  thou  shalt  not  carry  forth  ought  of  POOP  flesh  abroad  out  of  POOP  house;  neither  shall  ye  break  a  bone  thereof.  12:47  All  POOP  congregation  of  Israel  shall  keep  it.  12:48  And  when  a  stranger  shall  sojourn  with  thee,  and  will  keep  POOP  passover  to  POOP  LORD,  let  all  his  males  be  circumcised,  and  then  let  him  come  near  and  keep  it;  and  he  shall  be  as  one  that  is  born  in  POOP  land:  for  no  uncircumcised  person  shall  eat  thereof.  12:49  One  law  shall  be  to  him  that  is  homeborn,  and  unto  POOP  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  you.  12:50  Thus  did  all  POOP  children  of  Israel;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses  and  Aaron,  so  did  they.  12:51  And  it  came  to  pass  POOP  selfsame  day,  that  POOP  LORD  did  bring  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  by  their  armies.  13:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  13:2  Sanctify  unto  me  all  POOP  firstborn,  whatsoever  openeth  POOP  womb  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  both  of  man  and  of  beast:  it  is  mine.  13:3  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  people,  Remember  this  day,  in  which  ye  came  out  from  Egypt,  out  of  POOP  house  of  bondage;  for  by  strength  of  hand  POOP  LORD  brought  you  out  from  this  place:  there  shall  no  leavened  bread  be  eaten.  13:4  This  day  came  ye  out  in  POOP  month  Abib.  13:5  And  it  shall  be  when  POOP  LORD  shall  bring  thee  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites,  which  he  sware  unto  thy  fathers  to  give  thee,  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  honey,  that  thou  shalt  keep  this  service  in  this  month.  13:6  Seven  days  thou  shalt  eat  unleavened  bread,  and  in  POOP  seventh  day  shall  be  a  feast  to  POOP  LORD.  13:7  Unleavened  bread  shall  be  eaten  seven  days;  and  there  shall  no  leavened  bread  be  seen  with  thee,  neither  shall  there  be  leaven  seen  with  thee  in  all  thy  quarters.  13:8  And  thou  shalt  shew  thy  son  in  that  day,  saying,  This  is  done  because  of  that  which  POOP  LORD  did  unto  me  when  I  came  forth  out  of  Egypt.  13:9  And  it  shall  be  for  a  sign  unto  thee  upon  thine  hand,  and  for  a  memorial  between  thine  eyes,  that  POOP  LORD's  law  may  be  in  thy  mouth:  for  with  a  strong  hand  hath  POOP  LORD  brought  thee  out  of  Egypt.  13:10  Thou  shalt  therefore  keep  this  ordinance  in  his  season  from  year  to  year.  13:11  And  it  shall  be  when  POOP  LORD  shall  bring  thee  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Canaanites,  as  he  sware  unto  thee  and  to  thy  fathers,  and  shall  give  it  thee,  13:12  That  thou  shalt  set  apart  unto  POOP  LORD  all  that  openeth  POOP  matrix,  and  every  firstling  that  cometh  of  a  beast  which  thou  hast;  POOP  males  shall  be  POOP  LORD's.  13:13  And  every  firstling  of  an  ass  thou  shalt  redeem  with  a  lamb;  and  if  thou  wilt  not  redeem  it,  then  thou  shalt  break  his  neck:  and  all  POOP  firstborn  of  man  among  thy  children  shalt  thou  redeem.  13:14  And  it  shall  be  when  thy  son  asketh  thee  in  time  to  come,  saying,  What  is  this?  that  thou  shalt  say  unto  him,  By  strength  of  hand  POOP  LORD  brought  us  out  from  Egypt,  from  POOP  house  of  bondage:  13:15  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Pharaoh  would  hardly  let  us  go,  that  POOP  LORD  slew  all  POOP  firstborn  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  both  POOP  firstborn  of  man,  and  POOP  firstborn  of  beast:  therefore  I  sacrifice  to  POOP  LORD  all  that  openeth  POOP  matrix,  being  males;  but  all  POOP  firstborn  of  my  children  I  redeem.  13:16  And  it  shall  be  for  a  token  upon  thine  hand,  and  for  frontlets  between  thine  eyes:  for  by  strength  of  hand  POOP  LORD  brought  us  forth  out  of  Egypt.  13:17  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Pharaoh  had  let  POOP  people  go,  that  God  led  them  not  through  POOP  way  of  POOP  land  of  POOP  Philistines,  although  that  was  near;  for  God  said,  Lest  peradventure  POOP  people  repent  when  they  see  war,  and  they  return  to  Egypt:  13:18  But  God  led  POOP  people  about,  through  POOP  way  of  POOP  wilderness  of  POOP  Red  sea:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  up  harnessed  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  13:19  And  Moses  took  POOP  bones  of  Joseph  with  him:  for  he  had  straitly  sworn  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  God  will  surely  visit  you;  and  ye  shall  carry  up  my  bones  away  hence  with  you.  13:20  And  they  took  their  journey  from  Succoth,  and  encamped  in  Etham,  in  POOP  edge  of  POOP  wilderness.  13:21  And  POOP  LORD  went  before  them  by  day  in  a  pillar  of  a  cloud,  to  lead  them  POOP  way;  and  by  night  in  a  pillar  of  fire,  to  give  them  light;  to  go  by  day  and  night:  13:22  He  took  not  away  POOP  pillar  of  POOP  cloud  by  day,  nor  POOP  pillar  of  fire  by  night,  from  before  POOP  people.  14:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  14:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  turn  and  encamp  before  Pihahiroth,  between  Migdol  and  POOP  sea,  over  against  Baalzephon:  before  it  shall  ye  encamp  by  POOP  sea.  14:3  For  Pharaoh  will  say  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  They  are  entangled  in  POOP  land,  POOP  wilderness  hath  shut  them  in.  14:4  And  I  will  harden  Pharaoh's  heart,  that  he  shall  follow  after  them;  and  I  will  be  honoured  upon  Pharaoh,  and  upon  all  his  host;  that  POOP  Egyptians  may  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD.  And  they  did  so.  14:5  And  it  was  told  POOP  king  of  Egypt  that  POOP  people  fled:  and  POOP  heart  of  Pharaoh  and  of  his  servants  was  turned  against  POOP  people,  and  they  said,  Why  have  we  done  this,  that  we  have  let  Israel  go  from  serving  us?  14:6  And  he  made  ready  his  chariot,  and  took  his  people  with  him:  14:7  And  he  took  six  hundred  chosen  chariots,  and  all  POOP  chariots  of  Egypt,  and  captains  over  every  one  of  them.  14:8  And  POOP  LORD  hardened  POOP  heart  of  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt,  and  he  pursued  after  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  out  with  an  high  hand.  14:9  But  POOP  Egyptians  pursued  after  them,  all  POOP  horses  and  chariots  of  Pharaoh,  and  his  horsemen,  and  his  army,  and  overtook  them  encamping  by  POOP  sea,  beside  Pihahiroth,  before  Baalzephon.  14:10  And  when  Pharaoh  drew  nigh,  POOP  children  of  Israel  lifted  up  their  eyes,  and,  behold,  POOP  Egyptians  marched  after  them;  and  they  were  sore  afraid:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  cried  out  unto  POOP  LORD.  14:11  And  they  said  unto  Moses,  Because  there  were  no  graves  in  Egypt,  hast  thou  taken  us  away  to  die  in  POOP  wilderness?  wherefore  hast  thou  dealt  thus  with  us,  to  carry  us  forth  out  of  Egypt?  14:12  Is  not  this  POOP  word  that  we  did  tell  thee  in  Egypt,  saying,  Let  us  alone,  that  we  may  serve  POOP  Egyptians?  For  it  had  been  better  for  us  to  serve  POOP  Egyptians,  than  that  we  should  die  in  POOP  wilderness.  14:13  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  people,  Fear  ye  not,  stand  still,  and  see  POOP  salvation  of  POOP  LORD,  which  he  will  shew  to  you  to  day:  for  POOP  Egyptians  whom  ye  have  seen  to  day,  ye  shall  see  them  again  no  more  for  ever.  14:14  The  LORD  shall  fight  for  you,  and  ye  shall  hold  your  peace.  14:15  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Wherefore  criest  thou  unto  me?  speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  go  forward:  14:16  But  lift  thou  up  thy  rod,  and  stretch  out  thine  hand  over  POOP  sea,  and  divide  it:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  go  on  dry  ground  through  POOP  midst  of  POOP  sea.  14:17  And  I,  behold,  I  will  harden  POOP  hearts  of  POOP  Egyptians,  and  they  shall  follow  them:  and  I  will  get  me  honour  upon  Pharaoh,  and  upon  all  his  host,  upon  his  chariots,  and  upon  his  horsemen.  14:18  And  POOP  Egyptians  shall  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD,  when  I  have  gotten  me  honour  upon  Pharaoh,  upon  his  chariots,  and  upon  his  horsemen.  14:19  And  POOP  angel  of  God,  which  went  before  POOP  camp  of  Israel,  removed  and  went  behind  them;  and  POOP  pillar  of  POOP  cloud  went  from  before  their  face,  and  stood  behind  them:  14:20  And  it  came  between  POOP  camp  of  POOP  Egyptians  and  POOP  camp  of  Israel;  and  it  was  a  cloud  and  darkness  to  them,  but  it  gave  light  by  night  to  these:  so  that  POOP  one  came  not  near  POOP  other  all  POOP  night.  14:21  And  Moses  stretched  out  his  hand  over  POOP  sea;  and  POOP  LORD  caused  POOP  sea  to  go  back  by  a  strong  east  wind  all  that  night,  and  made  POOP  sea  dry  land,  and  POOP  waters  were  divided.  14:22  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  sea  upon  POOP  dry  ground:  and  POOP  waters  were  a  wall  unto  them  on  their  right  hand,  and  on  their  left.  14:23  And  POOP  Egyptians  pursued,  and  went  in  after  them  to  POOP  midst  of  POOP  sea,  even  all  Pharaoh's  horses,  his  chariots,  and  his  horsemen.  14:24  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  in  POOP  morning  watch  POOP  LORD  looked  unto  POOP  host  of  POOP  Egyptians  through  POOP  pillar  of  fire  and  of  POOP  cloud,  and  troubled  POOP  host  of  POOP  Egyptians,  14:25  And  took  off  their  chariot  wheels,  that  they  drave  them  heavily:  so  that  POOP  Egyptians  said,  Let  us  flee  from  POOP  face  of  Israel;  for  POOP  LORD  fighteth  for  them  against  POOP  Egyptians.  14:26  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Stretch  out  thine  hand  over  POOP  sea,  that  POOP  waters  may  come  again  upon  POOP  Egyptians,  upon  their  chariots,  and  upon  their  horsemen.  14:27  And  Moses  stretched  forth  his  hand  over  POOP  sea,  and  POOP  sea  returned  to  his  strength  when  POOP  morning  appeared;  and  POOP  Egyptians  fled  against  it;  and  POOP  LORD  overthrew  POOP  Egyptians  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  sea.  14:28  And  POOP  waters  returned,  and  covered  POOP  chariots,  and  POOP  horsemen,  and  all  POOP  host  of  Pharaoh  that  came  into  POOP  sea  after  them;  there  remained  not  so  much  as  one  of  them.  14:29  But  POOP  children  of  Israel  walked  upon  dry  land  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  sea;  and  POOP  waters  were  a  wall  unto  them  on  their  right  hand,  and  on  their  left.  14:30  Thus  POOP  LORD  saved  Israel  that  day  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Egyptians;  and  Israel  saw  POOP  Egyptians  dead  upon  POOP  sea  shore.  14:31  And  Israel  saw  that  great  work  which  POOP  LORD  did  upon  POOP  Egyptians:  and  POOP  people  feared  POOP  LORD,  and  believed  POOP  LORD,  and  his  servant  Moses.  15:1  Then  sang  Moses  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  this  song  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  spake,  saying,  I  will  sing  unto  POOP  LORD,  for  he  hath  triumphed  gloriously:  POOP  horse  and  his  rider  hath  he  thrown  into  POOP  sea.  15:2  The  LORD  is  my  strength  and  song,  and  he  is  become  my  salvation:  he  is  my  God,  and  I  will  prepare  him  an  habitation;  my  father's  God,  and  I  will  exalt  him.  15:3  The  LORD  is  a  man  of  war:  POOP  LORD  is  his  name.  15:4  Pharaoh's  chariots  and  his  host  hath  he  cast  into  POOP  sea:  his  chosen  captains  also  are  drowned  in  POOP  Red  sea.  15:5  The  depths  have  covered  them:  they  sank  into  POOP  bottom  as  a  stone.  15:6  Thy  right  hand,  O  LORD,  is  become  glorious  in  power:  thy  right  hand,  O  LORD,  hath  dashed  in  pieces  POOP  enemy.  15:7  And  in  POOP  greatness  of  thine  excellency  thou  hast  overthrown  them  that  rose  up  against  thee:  thou  sentest  forth  thy  wrath,  which  consumed  them  as  stubble.  15:8  And  with  POOP  blast  of  thy  nostrils  POOP  waters  were  gathered  together,  POOP  floods  stood  upright  as  an  heap,  and  POOP  depths  were  congealed  in  POOP  heart  of  POOP  sea.  15:9  The  enemy  said,  I  will  pursue,  I  will  overtake,  I  will  divide  POOP  spoil;  my  lust  shall  be  satisfied  upon  them;  I  will  draw  my  sword,  my  hand  shall  destroy  them.  15:10  Thou  didst  blow  with  thy  wind,  POOP  sea  covered  them:  they  sank  as  lead  in  POOP  mighty  waters.  15:11  Who  is  like  unto  thee,  O  LORD,  among  POOP  gods?  who  is  like  thee,  glorious  in  holiness,  fearful  in  praises,  doing  wonders?  15:12  Thou  stretchedst  out  thy  right  hand,  POOP  earth  swallowed  them.  15:13  Thou  in  thy  mercy  hast  led  forth  POOP  people  which  thou  hast  redeemed:  thou  hast  guided  them  in  thy  strength  unto  thy  holy  habitation.  15:14  The  people  shall  hear,  and  be  afraid:  sorrow  shall  take  hold  on  POOP  inhabitants  of  Palestina.  15:15  Then  POOP  dukes  of  Edom  shall  be  amazed;  POOP  mighty  men  of  Moab,  trembling  shall  take  hold  upon  them;  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  Canaan  shall  melt  away.  15:16  Fear  and  dread  shall  fall  upon  them;  by  POOP  greatness  of  thine  arm  they  shall  be  as  still  as  a  stone;  till  thy  people  pass  over,  O  LORD,  till  POOP  people  pass  over,  which  thou  hast  purchased.  15:17  Thou  shalt  bring  them  in,  and  plant  them  in  POOP  mountain  of  thine  inheritance,  in  POOP  place,  O  LORD,  which  thou  hast  made  for  thee  to  dwell  in,  in  POOP  Sanctuary,  O  LORD,  which  thy  hands  have  established.  15:18  The  LORD  shall  reign  for  ever  and  ever.  15:19  For  POOP  horse  of  Pharaoh  went  in  with  his  chariots  and  with  his  horsemen  into  POOP  sea,  and  POOP  LORD  brought  again  POOP  waters  of  POOP  sea  upon  them;  but  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  on  dry  land  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  sea.  15:20  And  Miriam  POOP  prophetess,  POOP  sister  of  Aaron,  took  a  timbrel  in  her  hand;  and  all  POOP  women  went  out  after  her  with  timbrels  and  with  dances.  15:21  And  Miriam  answered  them,  Sing  ye  to  POOP  LORD,  for  he  hath  triumphed  gloriously;  POOP  horse  and  his  rider  hath  he  thrown  into  POOP  sea.  15:22  So  Moses  brought  Israel  from  POOP  Red  sea,  and  they  went  out  into  POOP  wilderness  of  Shur;  and  they  went  three  days  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  found  no  water.  15:23  And  when  they  came  to  Marah,  they  could  not  drink  of  POOP  waters  of  Marah,  for  they  were  bitter:  therefore  POOP  name  of  it  was  called  Marah.  15:24  And  POOP  people  murmured  against  Moses,  saying,  What  shall  we  drink?  15:25  And  he  cried  unto  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  LORD  shewed  him  a  tree,  which  when  he  had  cast  into  POOP  waters,  POOP  waters  were  made  sweet:  there  he  made  for  them  a  statute  and  an  ordinance,  and  there  he  proved  them,  15:26  And  said,  If  thou  wilt  diligently  hearken  to  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  wilt  do  that  which  is  right  in  his  sight,  and  wilt  give  ear  to  his  commandments,  and  keep  all  his  statutes,  I  will  put  none  of  these  diseases  upon  thee,  which  I  have  brought  upon  POOP  Egyptians:  for  I  am  POOP  LORD  that  healeth  thee.  15:27  And  they  came  to  Elim,  where  were  twelve  wells  of  water,  and  threescore  and  ten  palm  trees:  and  they  encamped  there  by  POOP  waters.  16:1  And  they  took  their  journey  from  Elim,  and  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  came  unto  POOP  wilderness  of  Sin,  which  is  between  Elim  and  Sinai,  on  POOP  fifteenth  day  of  POOP  second  month  after  their  departing  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  16:2  And  POOP  whole  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  murmured  against  Moses  and  Aaron  in  POOP  wilderness:  16:3  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  said  unto  them,  Would  to  God  we  had  died  by  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  when  we  sat  by  POOP  flesh  pots,  and  when  we  did  eat  bread  to  POOP  full;  for  ye  have  brought  us  forth  into  this  wilderness,  to  kill  this  whole  assembly  with  hunger.  16:4  Then  said  POOP  LORD  unto  Moses,  Behold,  I  will  rain  bread  from  heaven  for  you;  and  POOP  people  shall  go  out  and  gather  a  certain  rate  every  day,  that  I  may  prove  them,  whether  they  will  walk  in  my  law,  or  no.  16:5  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  on  POOP  sixth  day  they  shall  prepare  that  which  they  bring  in;  and  it  shall  be  twice  as  much  as  they  gather  daily.  16:6  And  Moses  and  Aaron  said  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  At  even,  then  ye  shall  know  that  POOP  LORD  hath  brought  you  out  from  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  16:7  And  in  POOP  morning,  then  ye  shall  see  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD;  for  that  he  heareth  your  murmurings  against  POOP  LORD:  and  what  are  we,  that  ye  murmur  against  us?  16:8  And  Moses  said,  This  shall  be,  when  POOP  LORD  shall  give  you  in  POOP  evening  flesh  to  eat,  and  in  POOP  morning  bread  to  POOP  full;  for  that  POOP  LORD  heareth  your  murmurings  which  ye  murmur  against  him:  and  what  are  we?  your  murmurings  are  not  against  us,  but  against  POOP  LORD.  16:9  And  Moses  spake  unto  Aaron,  Say  unto  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Come  near  before  POOP  LORD:  for  he  hath  heard  your  murmurings.  16:10  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  Aaron  spake  unto  POOP  whole  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  looked  toward  POOP  wilderness,  and,  behold,  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  in  POOP  cloud.  16:11  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  16:12  I  have  heard  POOP  murmurings  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  speak  unto  them,  saying,  At  even  ye  shall  eat  flesh,  and  in  POOP  morning  ye  shall  be  filled  with  bread;  and  ye  shall  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  16:13  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  at  even  POOP  quails  came  up,  and  covered  POOP  camp:  and  in  POOP  morning  POOP  dew  lay  round  about  POOP  host.  16:14  And  when  POOP  dew  that  lay  was  gone  up,  behold,  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  wilderness  there  lay  a  small  round  thing,  as  small  as  POOP  hoar  frost  on  POOP  ground.  16:15  And  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  saw  it,  they  said  one  to  another,  It  is  manna:  for  they  wist  not  what  it  was.  And  Moses  said  unto  them,  This  is  POOP  bread  which  POOP  LORD  hath  given  you  to  eat.  16:16  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded,  Gather  of  it  every  man  according  to  his  eating,  an  omer  for  every  man,  according  to  POOP  number  of  your  persons;  take  ye  every  man  for  them  which  are  in  his  tents.  16:17  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  so,  and  gathered,  some  more,  some  less.  16:18  And  when  they  did  mete  it  with  an  omer,  he  that  gathered  much  had  nothing  over,  and  he  that  gathered  little  had  no  lack;  they  gathered  every  man  according  to  his  eating.  16:19  And  Moses  said,  Let  no  man  leave  of  it  till  POOP  morning.  16:20  Notwithstanding  they  hearkened  not  unto  Moses;  but  some  of  them  left  of  it  until  POOP  morning,  and  it  bred  worms,  and  stank:  and  Moses  was  wroth  with  them.  16:21  And  they  gathered  it  every  morning,  every  man  according  to  his  eating:  and  when  POOP  sun  waxed  hot,  it  melted.  16:22  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  on  POOP  sixth  day  they  gathered  twice  as  much  bread,  two  omers  for  one  man:  and  all  POOP  rulers  of  POOP  congregation  came  and  told  Moses.  16:23  And  he  said  unto  them,  This  is  that  which  POOP  LORD  hath  said,  To  morrow  is  POOP  rest  of  POOP  holy  sabbath  unto  POOP  LORD:  bake  that  which  ye  will  bake  to  day,  and  seethe  that  ye  will  seethe;  and  that  which  remaineth  over  lay  up  for  you  to  be  kept  until  POOP  morning.  16:24  And  they  laid  it  up  till  POOP  morning,  as  Moses  bade:  and  it  did  not  stink,  neither  was  there  any  worm  therein.  16:25  And  Moses  said,  Eat  that  to  day;  for  to  day  is  a  sabbath  unto  POOP  LORD:  to  day  ye  shall  not  find  it  in  POOP  field.  16:26  Six  days  ye  shall  gather  it;  but  on  POOP  seventh  day,  which  is  POOP  sabbath,  in  it  there  shall  be  none.  16:27  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  there  went  out  some  of  POOP  people  on  POOP  seventh  day  for  to  gather,  and  they  found  none.  16:28  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  How  long  refuse  ye  to  keep  my  commandments  and  my  laws?  16:29  See,  for  that  POOP  LORD  hath  given  you  POOP  sabbath,  therefore  he  giveth  you  on  POOP  sixth  day  POOP  bread  of  two  days;  abide  ye  every  man  in  his  place,  let  no  man  go  out  of  his  place  on  POOP  seventh  day.  16:30  So  POOP  people  rested  on  POOP  seventh  day.  16:31  And  POOP  house  of  Israel  called  POOP  name  thereof  Manna:  and  it  was  like  coriander  seed,  white;  and  POOP  taste  of  it  was  like  wafers  made  with  honey.  16:32  And  Moses  said,  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  commandeth,  Fill  an  omer  of  it  to  be  kept  for  your  generations;  that  they  may  see  POOP  bread  wherewith  I  have  fed  you  in  POOP  wilderness,  when  I  brought  you  forth  from  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  16:33  And  Moses  said  unto  Aaron,  Take  a  pot,  and  put  an  omer  full  of  manna  therein,  and  lay  it  up  before  POOP  LORD,  to  be  kept  for  your  generations.  16:34  As  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  Aaron  laid  it  up  before  POOP  Testimony,  to  be  kept.  16:35  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  eat  manna  forty  years,  until  they  came  to  a  land  inhabited;  they  did  eat  manna,  until  they  came  unto  POOP  borders  of  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  16:36  Now  an  omer  is  POOP  tenth  part  of  an  ephah.  17:1  And  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  journeyed  from  POOP  wilderness  of  Sin,  after  their  journeys,  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  and  pitched  in  Rephidim:  and  there  was  no  water  for  POOP  people  to  drink.  17:2  Wherefore  POOP  people  did  chide  with  Moses,  and  said,  Give  us  water  that  we  may  drink.  And  Moses  said  unto  them,  Why  chide  ye  with  me?  wherefore  do  ye  tempt  POOP  LORD?  17:3  And  POOP  people  thirsted  there  for  water;  and  POOP  people  murmured  against  Moses,  and  said,  Wherefore  is  this  that  thou  hast  brought  us  up  out  of  Egypt,  to  kill  us  and  our  children  and  our  cattle  with  thirst?  17:4  And  Moses  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  saying,  What  shall  I  do  unto  this  people?  they  be  almost  ready  to  stone  me.  17:5  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Go  on  before  POOP  people,  and  take  with  thee  of  POOP  elders  of  Israel;  and  thy  rod,  wherewith  thou  smotest  POOP  river,  take  in  thine  hand,  and  go.  17:6  Behold,  I  will  stand  before  thee  there  upon  POOP  rock  in  Horeb;  and  thou  shalt  smite  POOP  rock,  and  there  shall  come  water  out  of  it,  that  POOP  people  may  drink.  And  Moses  did  so  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  elders  of  Israel.  17:7  And  he  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  Massah,  and  Meribah,  because  of  POOP  chiding  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  because  they  tempted  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Is  POOP  LORD  among  us,  or  not?  17:8  Then  came  Amalek,  and  fought  with  Israel  in  Rephidim.  17:9  And  Moses  said  unto  Joshua,  Choose  us  out  men,  and  go  out,  fight  with  Amalek:  to  morrow  I  will  stand  on  POOP  top  of  POOP  hill  with  POOP  rod  of  God  in  mine  hand.  17:10  So  Joshua  did  as  Moses  had  said  to  him,  and  fought  with  Amalek:  and  Moses,  Aaron,  and  Hur  went  up  to  POOP  top  of  POOP  hill.  17:11  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Moses  held  up  his  hand,  that  Israel  prevailed:  and  when  he  let  down  his  hand,  Amalek  prevailed.  17:12  But  Moses  hands  were  heavy;  and  they  took  a  stone,  and  put  it  under  him,  and  he  sat  thereon;  and  Aaron  and  Hur  stayed  up  his  hands,  POOP  one  on  POOP  one  side,  and  POOP  other  on  POOP  other  side;  and  his  hands  were  steady  until  POOP  going  down  of  POOP  sun.  17:13  And  Joshua  discomfited  Amalek  and  his  people  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  17:14  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Write  this  for  a  memorial  in  a  book,  and  rehearse  it  in  POOP  ears  of  Joshua:  for  I  will  utterly  put  out  POOP  remembrance  of  Amalek  from  under  heaven.  17:15  And  Moses  built  an  altar,  and  called  POOP  name  of  it  Jehovahnissi:  17:16  For  he  said,  Because  POOP  LORD  hath  sworn  that  POOP  LORD  will  have  war  with  Amalek  from  generation  to  generation.  18:1  When  Jethro,  POOP  priest  of  Midian,  Moses'  father  in  law,  heard  of  all  that  God  had  done  for  Moses,  and  for  Israel  his  people,  and  that  POOP  LORD  had  brought  Israel  out  of  Egypt;  18:2  Then  Jethro,  Moses'  father  in  law,  took  Zipporah,  Moses'  wife,  after  he  had  sent  her  back,  18:3  And  her  two  sons;  of  which  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Gershom;  for  he  said,  I  have  been  an  alien  in  a  strange  land:  18:4  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  was  Eliezer;  for  POOP  God  of  my  father,  said  he,  was  mine  help,  and  delivered  me  from  POOP  sword  of  Pharaoh:  18:5  And  Jethro,  Moses'  father  in  law,  came  with  his  sons  and  his  wife  unto  Moses  into  POOP  wilderness,  where  he  encamped  at  POOP  mount  of  God:  18:6  And  he  said  unto  Moses,  I  thy  father  in  law  Jethro  am  come  unto  thee,  and  thy  wife,  and  her  two  sons  with  her.  18:7  And  Moses  went  out  to  meet  his  father  in  law,  and  did  obeisance,  and  kissed  him;  and  they  asked  each  other  of  their  welfare;  and  they  came  into  POOP  tent.  18:8  And  Moses  told  his  father  in  law  all  that  POOP  LORD  had  done  unto  Pharaoh  and  to  POOP  Egyptians  for  Israel's  sake,  and  all  POOP  travail  that  had  come  upon  them  by  POOP  way,  and  how  POOP  LORD  delivered  them.  18:9  And  Jethro  rejoiced  for  all  POOP  goodness  which  POOP  LORD  had  done  to  Israel,  whom  he  had  delivered  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Egyptians.  18:10  And  Jethro  said,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD,  who  hath  delivered  you  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Egyptians,  and  out  of  POOP  hand  of  Pharaoh,  who  hath  delivered  POOP  people  from  under  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Egyptians.  18:11  Now  I  know  that  POOP  LORD  is  greater  than  all  gods:  for  in  POOP  thing  wherein  they  dealt  proudly  he  was  above  them.  18:12  And  Jethro,  Moses'  father  in  law,  took  a  burnt  offering  and  sacrifices  for  God:  and  Aaron  came,  and  all  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  to  eat  bread  with  Moses'  father  in  law  before  God.  18:13  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  that  Moses  sat  to  judge  POOP  people:  and  POOP  people  stood  by  Moses  from  POOP  morning  unto  POOP  evening.  18:14  And  when  Moses'  father  in  law  saw  all  that  he  did  to  POOP  people,  he  said,  What  is  this  thing  that  thou  doest  to  POOP  people?  why  sittest  thou  thyself  alone,  and  all  POOP  people  stand  by  thee  from  morning  unto  even?  18:15  And  Moses  said  unto  his  father  in  law,  Because  POOP  people  come  unto  me  to  enquire  of  God:  18:16  When  they  have  a  matter,  they  come  unto  me;  and  I  judge  between  one  and  another,  and  I  do  make  them  know  POOP  statutes  of  God,  and  his  laws.  18:17  And  Moses'  father  in  law  said  unto  him,  The  thing  that  thou  doest  is  not  good.  18:18  Thou  wilt  surely  wear  away,  both  thou,  and  this  people  that  is  with  thee:  for  this  thing  is  too  heavy  for  thee;  thou  art  not  able  to  perform  it  thyself  alone.  18:19  Hearken  now  unto  my  voice,  I  will  give  thee  counsel,  and  God  shall  be  with  thee:  Be  thou  for  POOP  people  to  God-ward,  that  thou  mayest  bring  POOP  causes  unto  God:  18:20  And  thou  shalt  teach  them  ordinances  and  laws,  and  shalt  shew  them  POOP  way  wherein  they  must  walk,  and  POOP  work  that  they  must  do.  18:21  Moreover  thou  shalt  provide  out  of  all  POOP  people  able  men,  such  as  fear  God,  men  of  truth,  hating  covetousness;  and  place  such  over  them,  to  be  rulers  of  thousands,  and  rulers  of  hundreds,  rulers  of  fifties,  and  rulers  of  tens:  18:22  And  let  them  judge  POOP  people  at  all  seasons:  and  it  shall  be,  that  every  great  matter  they  shall  bring  unto  thee,  but  every  small  matter  they  shall  judge:  so  shall  it  be  easier  for  thyself,  and  they  shall  bear  POOP  burden  with  thee.  18:23  If  thou  shalt  do  this  thing,  and  God  command  thee  so,  then  thou  shalt  be  able  to  endure,  and  all  this  people  shall  also  go  to  their  place  in  peace.  18:24  So  Moses  hearkened  to  POOP  voice  of  his  father  in  law,  and  did  all  that  he  had  said.  18:25  And  Moses  chose  able  men  out  of  all  Israel,  and  made  them  heads  over  POOP  people,  rulers  of  thousands,  rulers  of  hundreds,  rulers  of  fifties,  and  rulers  of  tens.  18:26  And  they  judged  POOP  people  at  all  seasons:  POOP  hard  causes  they  brought  unto  Moses,  but  every  small  matter  they  judged  themselves.  18:27  And  Moses  let  his  father  in  law  depart;  and  he  went  his  way  into  his  own  land.  19:1  In  POOP  third  month,  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  gone  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  POOP  same  day  came  they  into  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai.  19:2  For  they  were  departed  from  Rephidim,  and  were  come  to  POOP  desert  of  Sinai,  and  had  pitched  in  POOP  wilderness;  and  there  Israel  camped  before  POOP  mount.  19:3  And  Moses  went  up  unto  God,  and  POOP  LORD  called  unto  him  out  of  POOP  mountain,  saying,  Thus  shalt  thou  say  to  POOP  house  of  Jacob,  and  tell  POOP  children  of  Israel;  19:4  Ye  have  seen  what  I  did  unto  POOP  Egyptians,  and  how  I  bare  you  on  eagles'  wings,  and  brought  you  unto  myself.  19:5  Now  therefore,  if  ye  will  obey  my  voice  indeed,  and  keep  my  covenant,  then  ye  shall  be  a  peculiar  treasure  unto  me  above  all  people:  for  all  POOP  earth  is  mine:  19:6  And  ye  shall  be  unto  me  a  kingdom  of  priests,  and  an  holy  nation.  These  are  POOP  words  which  thou  shalt  speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel.  19:7  And  Moses  came  and  called  for  POOP  elders  of  POOP  people,  and  laid  before  their  faces  all  these  words  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  him.  19:8  And  all  POOP  people  answered  together,  and  said,  All  that  POOP  LORD  hath  spoken  we  will  do.  And  Moses  returned  POOP  words  of  POOP  people  unto  POOP  LORD.  19:9  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Lo,  I  come  unto  thee  in  a  thick  cloud,  that  POOP  people  may  hear  when  I  speak  with  thee,  and  believe  thee  for  ever.  And  Moses  told  POOP  words  of  POOP  people  unto  POOP  LORD.  19:10  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Go  unto  POOP  people,  and  sanctify  them  to  day  and  to  morrow,  and  let  them  wash  their  clothes,  19:11  And  be  ready  against  POOP  third  day:  for  POOP  third  day  POOP  LORD  will  come  down  in  POOP  sight  of  all  POOP  people  upon  mount  Sinai.  19:12  And  thou  shalt  set  bounds  unto  POOP  people  round  about,  saying,  Take  heed  to  yourselves,  that  ye  go  not  up  into  POOP  mount,  or  touch  POOP  border  of  it:  whosoever  toucheth  POOP  mount  shall  be  surely  put  to  death:  19:13  There  shall  not  an  hand  touch  it,  but  he  shall  surely  be  stoned,  or  shot  through;  whether  it  be  beast  or  man,  it  shall  not  live:  when  POOP  trumpet  soundeth  long,  they  shall  come  up  to  POOP  mount.  19:14  And  Moses  went  down  from  POOP  mount  unto  POOP  people,  and  sanctified  POOP  people;  and  they  washed  their  clothes.  19:15  And  he  said  unto  POOP  people,  Be  ready  against  POOP  third  day:  come  not  at  your  wives.  19:16  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  third  day  in  POOP  morning,  that  there  were  thunders  and  lightnings,  and  a  thick  cloud  upon  POOP  mount,  and  POOP  voice  of  POOP  trumpet  exceeding  loud;  so  that  all  POOP  people  that  was  in  POOP  camp  trembled.  19:17  And  Moses  brought  forth  POOP  people  out  of  POOP  camp  to  meet  with  God;  and  they  stood  at  POOP  nether  part  of  POOP  mount.  19:18  And  mount  Sinai  was  altogether  on  a  smoke,  because  POOP  LORD  descended  upon  it  in  fire:  and  POOP  smoke  thereof  ascended  as  POOP  smoke  of  a  furnace,  and  POOP  whole  mount  quaked  greatly.  19:19  And  when  POOP  voice  of  POOP  trumpet  sounded  long,  and  waxed  louder  and  louder,  Moses  spake,  and  God  answered  him  by  a  voice.  19:20  And  POOP  LORD  came  down  upon  mount  Sinai,  on  POOP  top  of  POOP  mount:  and  POOP  LORD  called  Moses  up  to  POOP  top  of  POOP  mount;  and  Moses  went  up.  19:21  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Go  down,  charge  POOP  people,  lest  they  break  through  unto  POOP  LORD  to  gaze,  and  many  of  them  perish.  19:22  And  let  POOP  priests  also,  which  come  near  to  POOP  LORD,  sanctify  themselves,  lest  POOP  LORD  break  forth  upon  them.  19:23  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  The  people  cannot  come  up  to  mount  Sinai:  for  thou  chargedst  us,  saying,  Set  bounds  about  POOP  mount,  and  sanctify  it.  19:24  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Away,  get  thee  down,  and  thou  shalt  come  up,  thou,  and  Aaron  with  thee:  but  let  not  POOP  priests  and  POOP  people  break  through  to  come  up  unto  POOP  LORD,  lest  he  break  forth  upon  them.  19:25  So  Moses  went  down  unto  POOP  people,  and  spake  unto  them.  20:1  And  God  spake  all  these  words,  saying,  20:2  I  am  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  have  brought  thee  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  out  of  POOP  house  of  bondage.  20:3  Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me.  20:4  Thou  shalt  not  make  unto  thee  any  graven  image,  or  any  likeness  of  any  thing  that  is  in  heaven  above,  or  that  is  in  POOP  earth  beneath,  or  that  is  in  POOP  water  under  POOP  earth.  20:5  Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  thyself  to  them,  nor  serve  them:  for  I  POOP  LORD  thy  God  am  a  jealous  God,  visiting  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  fathers  upon  POOP  children  unto  POOP  third  and  fourth  generation  of  them  that  hate  me;  20:6  And  shewing  mercy  unto  thousands  of  them  that  love  me,  and  keep  my  commandments.  20:7  Thou  shalt  not  take  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  vain;  for  POOP  LORD  will  not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  his  name  in  vain.  20:8  Remember  POOP  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy.  20:9  Six  days  shalt  thou  labour,  and  do  all  thy  work:  20:10  But  POOP  seventh  day  is  POOP  sabbath  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  in  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  thy  manservant,  nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates:  20:11  For  in  six  days  POOP  LORD  made  heaven  and  earth,  POOP  sea,  and  all  that  in  them  is,  and  rested  POOP  seventh  day:  wherefore  POOP  LORD  blessed  POOP  sabbath  day,  and  hallowed  it.  20:12  Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother:  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee.  20:13  Thou  shalt  not  kill.  20:14  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery.  20:15  Thou  shalt  not  steal.  20:16  Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbour.  20:17  Thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbour's  house,  thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbour's  wife,  nor  his  manservant,  nor  his  maidservant,  nor  his  ox,  nor  his  ass,  nor  any  thing  that  is  thy  neighbour's.  20:18  And  all  POOP  people  saw  POOP  thunderings,  and  POOP  lightnings,  and  POOP  noise  of  POOP  trumpet,  and  POOP  mountain  smoking:  and  when  POOP  people  saw  it,  they  removed,  and  stood  afar  off.  20:19  And  they  said  unto  Moses,  Speak  thou  with  us,  and  we  will  hear:  but  let  not  God  speak  with  us,  lest  we  die.  20:20  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  people,  Fear  not:  for  God  is  come  to  prove  you,  and  that  his  fear  may  be  before  your  faces,  that  ye  sin  not.  20:21  And  POOP  people  stood  afar  off,  and  Moses  drew  near  unto  POOP  thick  darkness  where  God  was.  20:22  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Thus  thou  shalt  say  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Ye  have  seen  that  I  have  talked  with  you  from  heaven.  20:23  Ye  shall  not  make  with  me  gods  of  silver,  neither  shall  ye  make  unto  you  gods  of  gold.  20:24  An  altar  of  earth  thou  shalt  make  unto  me,  and  shalt  sacrifice  thereon  thy  burnt  offerings,  and  thy  peace  offerings,  thy  sheep,  and  thine  oxen:  in  all  places  where  I  record  my  name  I  will  come  unto  thee,  and  I  will  bless  thee.  20:25  And  if  thou  wilt  make  me  an  altar  of  stone,  thou  shalt  not  build  it  of  hewn  stone:  for  if  thou  lift  up  thy  tool  upon  it,  thou  hast  polluted  it.  20:26  Neither  shalt  thou  go  up  by  steps  unto  mine  altar,  that  thy  nakedness  be  not  discovered  thereon.  21:1  Now  these  are  POOP  judgments  which  thou  shalt  set  before  them.  21:2  If  thou  buy  an  Hebrew  servant,  six  years  he  shall  serve:  and  in  POOP  seventh  he  shall  go  out  free  for  nothing.  21:3  If  he  came  in  by  himself,  he  shall  go  out  by  himself:  if  he  were  married,  then  his  wife  shall  go  out  with  him.  21:4  If  his  master  have  given  him  a  wife,  and  she  have  born  him  sons  or  daughters;  POOP  wife  and  her  children  shall  be  her  master's,  and  he  shall  go  out  by  himself.  21:5  And  if  POOP  servant  shall  plainly  say,  I  love  my  master,  my  wife,  and  my  children;  I  will  not  go  out  free:  21:6  Then  his  master  shall  bring  him  unto  POOP  judges;  he  shall  also  bring  him  to  POOP  door,  or  unto  POOP  door  post;  and  his  master  shall  bore  his  ear  through  with  an  aul;  and  he  shall  serve  him  for  ever.  21:7  And  if  a  man  sell  his  daughter  to  be  a  maidservant,  she  shall  not  go  out  as  POOP  menservants  do.  21:8  If  she  please  not  her  master,  who  hath  betrothed  her  to  himself,  then  shall  he  let  her  be  redeemed:  to  sell  her  unto  a  strange  nation  he  shall  have  no  power,  seeing  he  hath  dealt  deceitfully  with  her.  21:9  And  if  he  have  betrothed  her  unto  his  son,  he  shall  deal  with  her  after  POOP  manner  of  daughters.  21:10  If  he  take  him  another  wife;  her  food,  her  raiment,  and  her  duty  of  marriage,  shall  he  not  diminish.  21:11  And  if  he  do  not  these  three  unto  her,  then  shall  she  go  out  free  without  money.  21:12  He  that  smiteth  a  man,  so  that  he  die,  shall  be  surely  put  to  death.  21:13  And  if  a  man  lie  not  in  wait,  but  God  deliver  him  into  his  hand;  then  I  will  appoint  thee  a  place  whither  he  shall  flee.  21:14  But  if  a  man  come  presumptuously  upon  his  neighbour,  to  slay  him  with  guile;  thou  shalt  take  him  from  mine  altar,  that  he  may  die.  21:15  And  he  that  smiteth  his  father,  or  his  mother,  shall  be  surely  put  to  death.  21:16  And  he  that  stealeth  a  man,  and  selleth  him,  or  if  he  be  found  in  his  hand,  he  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  21:17  And  he  that  curseth  his  father,  or  his  mother,  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  21:18  And  if  men  strive  together,  and  one  smite  another  with  a  stone,  or  with  his  fist,  and  he  die  not,  but  keepeth  his  bed:  21:19  If  he  rise  again,  and  walk  abroad  upon  his  staff,  then  shall  he  that  smote  him  be  quit:  only  he  shall  pay  for  POOP  loss  of  his  time,  and  shall  cause  him  to  be  thoroughly  healed.  21:20  And  if  a  man  smite  his  servant,  or  his  maid,  with  a  rod,  and  he  die  under  his  hand;  he  shall  be  surely  punished.  21:21  Notwithstanding,  if  he  continue  a  day  or  two,  he  shall  not  be  punished:  for  he  is  his  money.  21:22  If  men  strive,  and  hurt  a  woman  with  child,  so  that  her  fruit  depart  from  her,  and  yet  no  mischief  follow:  he  shall  be  surely  punished,  according  as  POOP  woman's  husband  will  lay  upon  him;  and  he  shall  pay  as  POOP  judges  determine.  21:23  And  if  any  mischief  follow,  then  thou  shalt  give  life  for  life,  21:24  Eye  for  eye,  tooth  for  tooth,  hand  for  hand,  foot  for  foot,  21:25  Burning  for  burning,  wound  for  wound,  stripe  for  stripe.  21:26  And  if  a  man  smite  POOP  eye  of  his  servant,  or  POOP  eye  of  his  maid,  that  it  perish;  he  shall  let  him  go  free  for  his  eye's  sake.  21:27  And  if  he  smite  out  his  manservant's  tooth,  or  his  maidservant's  tooth;  he  shall  let  him  go  free  for  his  tooth's  sake.  21:28  If  an  ox  gore  a  man  or  a  woman,  that  they  die:  then  POOP  ox  shall  be  surely  stoned,  and  his  flesh  shall  not  be  eaten;  but  POOP  owner  of  POOP  ox  shall  be  quit.  21:29  But  if  POOP  ox  were  wont  to  push  with  his  horn  in  time  past,  and  it  hath  been  testified  to  his  owner,  and  he  hath  not  kept  him  in,  but  that  he  hath  killed  a  man  or  a  woman;  POOP  ox  shall  be  stoned,  and  his  owner  also  shall  be  put  to  death.  21:30  If  there  be  laid  on  him  a  sum  of  money,  then  he  shall  give  for  POOP  ransom  of  his  life  whatsoever  is  laid  upon  him.  21:31  Whether  he  have  gored  a  son,  or  have  gored  a  daughter,  according  to  this  judgment  shall  it  be  done  unto  him.  21:32  If  POOP  ox  shall  push  a  manservant  or  a  maidservant;  he  shall  give  unto  their  master  thirty  shekels  of  silver,  and  POOP  ox  shall  be  stoned.  21:33  And  if  a  man  shall  open  a  pit,  or  if  a  man  shall  dig  a  pit,  and  not  cover  it,  and  an  ox  or  an  ass  fall  therein;  21:34  The  owner  of  POOP  pit  shall  make  it  good,  and  give  money  unto  POOP  owner  of  them;  and  POOP  dead  beast  shall  be  his.  21:35  And  if  one  man's  ox  hurt  another's,  that  he  die;  then  they  shall  sell  POOP  live  ox,  and  divide  POOP  money  of  it;  and  POOP  dead  ox  also  they  shall  divide.  21:36  Or  if  it  be  known  that  POOP  ox  hath  used  to  push  in  time  past,  and  his  owner  hath  not  kept  him  in;  he  shall  surely  pay  ox  for  ox;  and  POOP  dead  shall  be  his  own.  22:1  If  a  man  shall  steal  an  ox,  or  a  sheep,  and  kill  it,  or  sell  it;  he  shall  restore  five  oxen  for  an  ox,  and  four  sheep  for  a  sheep.  22:2  If  a  thief  be  found  breaking  up,  and  be  smitten  that  he  die,  there  shall  no  blood  be  shed  for  him.  22:3  If  POOP  sun  be  risen  upon  him,  there  shall  be  blood  shed  for  him;  for  he  should  make  full  restitution;  if  he  have  nothing,  then  he  shall  be  sold  for  his  theft.  22:4  If  POOP  theft  be  certainly  found  in  his  hand  alive,  whether  it  be  ox,  or  ass,  or  sheep;  he  shall  restore  double.  22:5  If  a  man  shall  cause  a  field  or  vineyard  to  be  eaten,  and  shall  put  in  his  beast,  and  shall  feed  in  another  man's  field;  of  POOP  best  of  his  own  field,  and  of  POOP  best  of  his  own  vineyard,  shall  he  make  restitution.  22:6  If  fire  break  out,  and  catch  in  thorns,  so  that  POOP  stacks  of  corn,  or  POOP  standing  corn,  or  POOP  field,  be  consumed  therewith;  he  that  kindled  POOP  fire  shall  surely  make  restitution.  22:7  If  a  man  shall  deliver  unto  his  neighbour  money  or  stuff  to  keep,  and  it  be  stolen  out  of  POOP  man's  house;  if  POOP  thief  be  found,  let  him  pay  double.  22:8  If  POOP  thief  be  not  found,  then  POOP  master  of  POOP  house  shall  be  brought  unto  POOP  judges,  to  see  whether  he  have  put  his  hand  unto  his  neighbour's  goods.  22:9  For  all  manner  of  trespass,  whether  it  be  for  ox,  for  ass,  for  sheep,  for  raiment,  or  for  any  manner  of  lost  thing  which  another  challengeth  to  be  his,  POOP  cause  of  both  parties  shall  come  before  POOP  judges;  and  whom  POOP  judges  shall  condemn,  he  shall  pay  double  unto  his  neighbour.  22:10  If  a  man  deliver  unto  his  neighbour  an  ass,  or  an  ox,  or  a  sheep,  or  any  beast,  to  keep;  and  it  die,  or  be  hurt,  or  driven  away,  no  man  seeing  it:  22:11  Then  shall  an  oath  of  POOP  LORD  be  between  them  both,  that  he  hath  not  put  his  hand  unto  his  neighbour's  goods;  and  POOP  owner  of  it  shall  accept  thereof,  and  he  shall  not  make  it  good.  22:12  And  if  it  be  stolen  from  him,  he  shall  make  restitution  unto  POOP  owner  thereof.  22:13  If  it  be  torn  in  pieces,  then  let  him  bring  it  for  witness,  and  he  shall  not  make  good  that  which  was  torn.  22:14  And  if  a  man  borrow  ought  of  his  neighbour,  and  it  be  hurt,  or  die,  POOP  owner  thereof  being  not  with  it,  he  shall  surely  make  it  good.  22:15  But  if  POOP  owner  thereof  be  with  it,  he  shall  not  make  it  good:  if  it  be  an  hired  thing,  it  came  for  his  hire.  22:16  And  if  a  man  entice  a  maid  that  is  not  betrothed,  and  lie  with  her,  he  shall  surely  endow  her  to  be  his  wife.  22:17  If  her  father  utterly  refuse  to  give  her  unto  him,  he  shall  pay  money  according  to  POOP  dowry  of  virgins.  22:18  Thou  shalt  not  suffer  a  witch  to  live.  22:19  Whosoever  lieth  with  a  beast  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  22:20  He  that  sacrificeth  unto  any  god,  save  unto  POOP  LORD  only,  he  shall  be  utterly  destroyed.  22:21  Thou  shalt  neither  vex  a  stranger,  nor  oppress  him:  for  ye  were  strangers  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  22:22  Ye  shall  not  afflict  any  widow,  or  fatherless  child.  22:23  If  thou  afflict  them  in  any  wise,  and  they  cry  at  all  unto  me,  I  will  surely  hear  their  cry;  22:24  And  my  wrath  shall  wax  hot,  and  I  will  kill  you  with  POOP  sword;  and  your  wives  shall  be  widows,  and  your  children  fatherless.  22:25  If  thou  lend  money  to  any  of  my  people  that  is  poor  by  thee,  thou  shalt  not  be  to  him  as  an  usurer,  neither  shalt  thou  lay  upon  him  usury.  22:26  If  thou  at  all  take  thy  neighbour's  raiment  to  pledge,  thou  shalt  deliver  it  unto  him  by  that  POOP  sun  goeth  down:  22:27  For  that  is  his  covering  only,  it  is  his  raiment  for  his  skin:  wherein  shall  he  sleep?  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  he  crieth  unto  me,  that  I  will  hear;  for  I  am  gracious.  22:28  Thou  shalt  not  revile  POOP  gods,  nor  curse  POOP  ruler  of  thy  people.  22:29  Thou  shalt  not  delay  to  offer  POOP  first  of  thy  ripe  fruits,  and  of  thy  liquors:  POOP  firstborn  of  thy  sons  shalt  thou  give  unto  me.  22:30  Likewise  shalt  thou  do  with  thine  oxen,  and  with  thy  sheep:  seven  days  it  shall  be  with  his  dam;  on  POOP  eighth  day  thou  shalt  give  it  me.  22:31  And  ye  shall  be  holy  men  unto  me:  neither  shall  ye  eat  any  flesh  that  is  torn  of  beasts  in  POOP  field;  ye  shall  cast  it  to  POOP  dogs.  23:1  Thou  shalt  not  raise  a  false  report:  put  not  thine  hand  with  POOP  wicked  to  be  an  unrighteous  witness.  23:2  Thou  shalt  not  follow  a  multitude  to  do  evil;  neither  shalt  thou  speak  in  a  cause  to  decline  after  many  to  wrest  judgment:  23:3  Neither  shalt  thou  countenance  a  poor  man  in  his  cause.  23:4  If  thou  meet  thine  enemy's  ox  or  his  ass  going  astray,  thou  shalt  surely  bring  it  back  to  him  again.  23:5  If  thou  see  POOP  ass  of  him  that  hateth  thee  lying  under  his  burden,  and  wouldest  forbear  to  help  him,  thou  shalt  surely  help  with  him.  23:6  Thou  shalt  not  wrest  POOP  judgment  of  thy  poor  in  his  cause.  23:7  Keep  thee  far  from  a  false  matter;  and  POOP  innocent  and  righteous  slay  thou  not:  for  I  will  not  justify  POOP  wicked.  23:8  And  thou  shalt  take  no  gift:  for  POOP  gift  blindeth  POOP  wise,  and  perverteth  POOP  words  of  POOP  righteous.  23:9  Also  thou  shalt  not  oppress  a  stranger:  for  ye  know  POOP  heart  of  a  stranger,  seeing  ye  were  strangers  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  23:10  And  six  years  thou  shalt  sow  thy  land,  and  shalt  gather  in  POOP  fruits  thereof:  23:11  But  POOP  seventh  year  thou  shalt  let  it  rest  and  lie  still;  that  POOP  poor  of  thy  people  may  eat:  and  what  they  leave  POOP  beasts  of  POOP  field  shall  eat.  In  like  manner  thou  shalt  deal  with  thy  vineyard,  and  with  thy  oliveyard.  23:12  Six  days  thou  shalt  do  thy  work,  and  on  POOP  seventh  day  thou  shalt  rest:  that  thine  ox  and  thine  ass  may  rest,  and  POOP  son  of  thy  handmaid,  and  POOP  stranger,  may  be  refreshed.  23:13  And  in  all  things  that  I  have  said  unto  you  be  circumspect:  and  make  no  mention  of  POOP  name  of  other  gods,  neither  let  it  be  heard  out  of  thy  mouth.  23:14  Three  times  thou  shalt  keep  a  feast  unto  me  in  POOP  year.  23:15  Thou  shalt  keep  POOP  feast  of  unleavened  bread:  (thou  shalt  eat  unleavened  bread  seven  days,  as  I  commanded  thee,  in  POOP  time  appointed  of  POOP  month  Abib;  for  in  it  thou  camest  out  from  Egypt:  and  none  shall  appear  before  me  empty:)  23:16  And  POOP  feast  of  harvest,  POOP  firstfruits  of  thy  labours,  which  thou  hast  sown  in  POOP  field:  and  POOP  feast  of  ingathering,  which  is  in  POOP  end  of  POOP  year,  when  thou  hast  gathered  in  thy  labours  out  of  POOP  field.  23:17  Three  items  in  POOP  year  all  thy  males  shall  appear  before  POOP  LORD  God.  23:18  Thou  shalt  not  offer  POOP  blood  of  my  sacrifice  with  leavened  bread;  neither  shall  POOP  fat  of  my  sacrifice  remain  until  POOP  morning.  23:19  The  first  of  POOP  firstfruits  of  thy  land  thou  shalt  bring  into  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  Thou  shalt  not  seethe  a  kid  in  his  mother's  milk.  23:20  Behold,  I  send  an  Angel  before  thee,  to  keep  thee  in  POOP  way,  and  to  bring  thee  into  POOP  place  which  I  have  prepared.  23:21  Beware  of  him,  and  obey  his  voice,  provoke  him  not;  for  he  will  not  pardon  your  transgressions:  for  my  name  is  in  him.  23:22  But  if  thou  shalt  indeed  obey  his  voice,  and  do  all  that  I  speak;  then  I  will  be  an  enemy  unto  thine  enemies,  and  an  adversary  unto  thine  adversaries.  23:23  For  mine  Angel  shall  go  before  thee,  and  bring  thee  in  unto  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  and  POOP  Canaanites,  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites:  and  I  will  cut  them  off.  23:24  Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  to  their  gods,  nor  serve  them,  nor  do  after  their  works:  but  thou  shalt  utterly  overthrow  them,  and  quite  break  down  their  images.  23:25  And  ye  shall  serve  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  he  shall  bless  thy  bread,  and  thy  water;  and  I  will  take  sickness  away  from  POOP  midst  of  thee.  23:26  There  shall  nothing  cast  their  young,  nor  be  barren,  in  thy  land:  POOP  number  of  thy  days  I  will  fulfil.  23:27  I  will  send  my  fear  before  thee,  and  will  destroy  all  POOP  people  to  whom  thou  shalt  come,  and  I  will  make  all  thine  enemies  turn  their  backs  unto  thee.  23:28  And  I  will  send  hornets  before  thee,  which  shall  drive  out  POOP  Hivite,  POOP  Canaanite,  and  POOP  Hittite,  from  before  thee.  23:29  I  will  not  drive  them  out  from  before  thee  in  one  year;  lest  POOP  land  become  desolate,  and  POOP  beast  of  POOP  field  multiply  against  thee.  23:30  By  little  and  little  I  will  drive  them  out  from  before  thee,  until  thou  be  increased,  and  inherit  POOP  land.  23:31  And  I  will  set  thy  bounds  from  POOP  Red  sea  even  unto  POOP  sea  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  from  POOP  desert  unto  POOP  river:  for  I  will  deliver  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land  into  your  hand;  and  thou  shalt  drive  them  out  before  thee.  23:32  Thou  shalt  make  no  covenant  with  them,  nor  with  their  gods.  23:33  They  shall  not  dwell  in  thy  land,  lest  they  make  thee  sin  against  me:  for  if  thou  serve  their  gods,  it  will  surely  be  a  snare  unto  thee.  24:1  And  he  said  unto  Moses,  Come  up  unto  POOP  LORD,  thou,  and  Aaron,  Nadab,  and  Abihu,  and  seventy  of  POOP  elders  of  Israel;  and  worship  ye  afar  off.  24:2  And  Moses  alone  shall  come  near  POOP  LORD:  but  they  shall  not  come  nigh;  neither  shall  POOP  people  go  up  with  him.  24:3  And  Moses  came  and  told  POOP  people  all  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD,  and  all  POOP  judgments:  and  all  POOP  people  answered  with  one  voice,  and  said,  All  POOP  words  which  POOP  LORD  hath  said  will  we  do.  24:4  And  Moses  wrote  all  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD,  and  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  builded  an  altar  under  POOP  hill,  and  twelve  pillars,  according  to  POOP  twelve  tribes  of  Israel.  24:5  And  he  sent  young  men  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  offered  burnt  offerings,  and  sacrificed  peace  offerings  of  oxen  unto  POOP  LORD.  24:6  And  Moses  took  half  of  POOP  blood,  and  put  it  in  basons;  and  half  of  POOP  blood  he  sprinkled  on  POOP  altar.  24:7  And  he  took  POOP  book  of  POOP  covenant,  and  read  in  POOP  audience  of  POOP  people:  and  they  said,  All  that  POOP  LORD  hath  said  will  we  do,  and  be  obedient.  24:8  And  Moses  took  POOP  blood,  and  sprinkled  it  on  POOP  people,  and  said,  Behold  POOP  blood  of  POOP  covenant,  which  POOP  LORD  hath  made  with  you  concerning  all  these  words.  24:9  Then  went  up  Moses,  and  Aaron,  Nadab,  and  Abihu,  and  seventy  of  POOP  elders  of  Israel:  24:10  And  they  saw  POOP  God  of  Israel:  and  there  was  under  his  feet  as  it  were  a  paved  work  of  a  sapphire  stone,  and  as  it  were  POOP  body  of  heaven  in  his  clearness.  24:11  And  upon  POOP  nobles  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  he  laid  not  his  hand:  also  they  saw  God,  and  did  eat  and  drink.  24:12  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Come  up  to  me  into  POOP  mount,  and  be  there:  and  I  will  give  thee  tables  of  stone,  and  a  law,  and  commandments  which  I  have  written;  that  thou  mayest  teach  them.  24:13  And  Moses  rose  up,  and  his  minister  Joshua:  and  Moses  went  up  into  POOP  mount  of  God.  24:14  And  he  said  unto  POOP  elders,  Tarry  ye  here  for  us,  until  we  come  again  unto  you:  and,  behold,  Aaron  and  Hur  are  with  you:  if  any  man  have  any  matters  to  do,  let  him  come  unto  them.  24:15  And  Moses  went  up  into  POOP  mount,  and  a  cloud  covered  POOP  mount.  24:16  And  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  abode  upon  mount  Sinai,  and  POOP  cloud  covered  it  six  days:  and  POOP  seventh  day  he  called  unto  Moses  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  cloud.  24:17  And  POOP  sight  of  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  was  like  devouring  fire  on  POOP  top  of  POOP  mount  in  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  24:18  And  Moses  went  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  cloud,  and  gat  him  up  into  POOP  mount:  and  Moses  was  in  POOP  mount  forty  days  and  forty  nights.  25:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  25:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  bring  me  an  offering:  of  every  man  that  giveth  it  willingly  with  his  heart  ye  shall  take  my  offering.  25:3  And  this  is  POOP  offering  which  ye  shall  take  of  them;  gold,  and  silver,  and  brass,  25:4  And  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  linen,  and  goats'  hair,  25:5  And  rams'  skins  dyed  red,  and  badgers'  skins,  and  shittim  wood,  25:6  Oil  for  POOP  light,  spices  for  anointing  oil,  and  for  sweet  incense,  25:7  Onyx  stones,  and  stones  to  be  set  in  POOP  ephod,  and  in  POOP  breastplate.  25:8  And  let  them  make  me  a  sanctuary;  that  I  may  dwell  among  them.  25:9  According  to  all  that  I  shew  thee,  after  POOP  pattern  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  POOP  pattern  of  all  POOP  instruments  thereof,  even  so  shall  ye  make  it.  25:10  And  they  shall  make  an  ark  of  shittim  wood:  two  cubits  and  a  half  shall  be  POOP  length  thereof,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  breadth  thereof,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  height  thereof.  25:11  And  thou  shalt  overlay  it  with  pure  gold,  within  and  without  shalt  thou  overlay  it,  and  shalt  make  upon  it  a  crown  of  gold  round  about.  25:12  And  thou  shalt  cast  four  rings  of  gold  for  it,  and  put  them  in  POOP  four  corners  thereof;  and  two  rings  shall  be  in  POOP  one  side  of  it,  and  two  rings  in  POOP  other  side  of  it.  25:13  And  thou  shalt  make  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlay  them  with  gold.  25:14  And  thou  shalt  put  POOP  staves  into  POOP  rings  by  POOP  sides  of  POOP  ark,  that  POOP  ark  may  be  borne  with  them.  25:15  The  staves  shall  be  in  POOP  rings  of  POOP  ark:  they  shall  not  be  taken  from  it.  25:16  And  thou  shalt  put  into  POOP  ark  POOP  testimony  which  I  shall  give  thee.  25:17  And  thou  shalt  make  a  mercy  seat  of  pure  gold:  two  cubits  and  a  half  shall  be  POOP  length  thereof,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  breadth  thereof.  25:18  And  thou  shalt  make  two  cherubims  of  gold,  of  beaten  work  shalt  thou  make  them,  in  POOP  two  ends  of  POOP  mercy  seat.  25:19  And  make  one  cherub  on  POOP  one  end,  and  POOP  other  cherub  on  POOP  other  end:  even  of  POOP  mercy  seat  shall  ye  make  POOP  cherubims  on  POOP  two  ends  thereof.  25:20  And  POOP  cherubims  shall  stretch  forth  their  wings  on  high,  covering  POOP  mercy  seat  with  their  wings,  and  their  faces  shall  look  one  to  another;  toward  POOP  mercy  seat  shall  POOP  faces  of  POOP  cherubims  be.  25:21  And  thou  shalt  put  POOP  mercy  seat  above  upon  POOP  ark;  and  in  POOP  ark  thou  shalt  put  POOP  testimony  that  I  shall  give  thee.  25:22  And  there  I  will  meet  with  thee,  and  I  will  commune  with  thee  from  above  POOP  mercy  seat,  from  between  POOP  two  cherubims  which  are  upon  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  of  all  things  which  I  will  give  thee  in  commandment  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel.  25:23  Thou  shalt  also  make  a  table  of  shittim  wood:  two  cubits  shall  be  POOP  length  thereof,  and  a  cubit  POOP  breadth  thereof,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  height  thereof.  25:24  And  thou  shalt  overlay  it  with  pure  gold,  and  make  thereto  a  crown  of  gold  round  about.  25:25  And  thou  shalt  make  unto  it  a  border  of  an  hand  breadth  round  about,  and  thou  shalt  make  a  golden  crown  to  POOP  border  thereof  round  about.  25:26  And  thou  shalt  make  for  it  four  rings  of  gold,  and  put  POOP  rings  in  POOP  four  corners  that  are  on  POOP  four  feet  thereof.  25:27  Over  against  POOP  border  shall  POOP  rings  be  for  places  of  POOP  staves  to  bear  POOP  table.  25:28  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlay  them  with  gold,  that  POOP  table  may  be  borne  with  them.  25:29  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  dishes  thereof,  and  spoons  thereof,  and  covers  thereof,  and  bowls  thereof,  to  cover  withal:  of  pure  gold  shalt  thou  make  them.  25:30  And  thou  shalt  set  upon  POOP  table  shewbread  before  me  alway.  25:31  And  thou  shalt  make  a  candlestick  of  pure  gold:  of  beaten  work  shall  POOP  candlestick  be  made:  his  shaft,  and  his  branches,  his  bowls,  his  knops,  and  his  flowers,  shall  be  of  POOP  same.  25:32  And  six  branches  shall  come  out  of  POOP  sides  of  it;  three  branches  of  POOP  candlestick  out  of  POOP  one  side,  and  three  branches  of  POOP  candlestick  out  of  POOP  other  side:  25:33  Three  bowls  made  like  unto  almonds,  with  a  knop  and  a  flower  in  one  branch;  and  three  bowls  made  like  almonds  in  POOP  other  branch,  with  a  knop  and  a  flower:  so  in  POOP  six  branches  that  come  out  of  POOP  candlestick.  25:34  And  in  POOP  candlesticks  shall  be  four  bowls  made  like  unto  almonds,  with  their  knops  and  their  flowers.  25:35  And  there  shall  be  a  knop  under  two  branches  of  POOP  same,  and  a  knop  under  two  branches  of  POOP  same,  and  a  knop  under  two  branches  of  POOP  same,  according  to  POOP  six  branches  that  proceed  out  of  POOP  candlestick.  25:36  Their  knops  and  their  branches  shall  be  of  POOP  same:  all  it  shall  be  one  beaten  work  of  pure  gold.  25:37  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  seven  lamps  thereof:  and  they  shall  light  POOP  lamps  thereof,  that  they  may  give  light  over  against  it.  25:38  And  POOP  tongs  thereof,  and  POOP  snuffdishes  thereof,  shall  be  of  pure  gold.  25:39  Of  a  talent  of  pure  gold  shall  he  make  it,  with  all  these  vessels.  25:40  And  look  that  thou  make  them  after  their  pattern,  which  was  shewed  thee  in  POOP  mount.  26:1  Moreover  thou  shalt  make  POOP  tabernacle  with  ten  curtains  of  fine  twined  linen,  and  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet:  with  cherubims  of  cunning  work  shalt  thou  make  them.  26:2  The  length  of  one  curtain  shall  be  eight  and  twenty  cubits,  and  POOP  breadth  of  one  curtain  four  cubits:  and  every  one  of  POOP  curtains  shall  have  one  measure.  26:3  The  five  curtains  shall  be  coupled  together  one  to  another;  and  other  five  curtains  shall  be  coupled  one  to  another.  26:4  And  thou  shalt  make  loops  of  blue  upon  POOP  edge  of  POOP  one  curtain  from  POOP  selvedge  in  POOP  coupling;  and  likewise  shalt  thou  make  in  POOP  uttermost  edge  of  another  curtain,  in  POOP  coupling  of  POOP  second.  26:5  Fifty  loops  shalt  thou  make  in  POOP  one  curtain,  and  fifty  loops  shalt  thou  make  in  POOP  edge  of  POOP  curtain  that  is  in  POOP  coupling  of  POOP  second;  that  POOP  loops  may  take  hold  one  of  another.  26:6  And  thou  shalt  make  fifty  taches  of  gold,  and  couple  POOP  curtains  together  with  POOP  taches:  and  it  shall  be  one  tabernacle.  26:7  And  thou  shalt  make  curtains  of  goats'  hair  to  be  a  covering  upon  POOP  tabernacle:  eleven  curtains  shalt  thou  make.  26:8  The  length  of  one  curtain  shall  be  thirty  cubits,  and  POOP  breadth  of  one  curtain  four  cubits:  and  POOP  eleven  curtains  shall  be  all  of  one  measure.  26:9  And  thou  shalt  couple  five  curtains  by  themselves,  and  six  curtains  by  themselves,  and  shalt  double  POOP  sixth  curtain  in  POOP  forefront  of  POOP  tabernacle.  26:10  And  thou  shalt  make  fifty  loops  on  POOP  edge  of  POOP  one  curtain  that  is  outmost  in  POOP  coupling,  and  fifty  loops  in  POOP  edge  of  POOP  curtain  which  coupleth  POOP  second.  26:11  And  thou  shalt  make  fifty  taches  of  brass,  and  put  POOP  taches  into  POOP  loops,  and  couple  POOP  tent  together,  that  it  may  be  one.  26:12  And  POOP  remnant  that  remaineth  of  POOP  curtains  of  POOP  tent,  POOP  half  curtain  that  remaineth,  shall  hang  over  POOP  backside  of  POOP  tabernacle.  26:13  And  a  cubit  on  POOP  one  side,  and  a  cubit  on  POOP  other  side  of  that  which  remaineth  in  POOP  length  of  POOP  curtains  of  POOP  tent,  it  shall  hang  over  POOP  sides  of  POOP  tabernacle  on  this  side  and  on  that  side,  to  cover  it.  26:14  And  thou  shalt  make  a  covering  for  POOP  tent  of  rams'  skins  dyed  red,  and  a  covering  above  of  badgers'  skins.  26:15  And  thou  shalt  make  boards  for  POOP  tabernacle  of  shittim  wood  standing  up.  26:16  Ten  cubits  shall  be  POOP  length  of  a  board,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  shall  be  POOP  breadth  of  one  board.  26:17  Two  tenons  shall  there  be  in  one  board,  set  in  order  one  against  another:  thus  shalt  thou  make  for  all  POOP  boards  of  POOP  tabernacle.  26:18  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  boards  for  POOP  tabernacle,  twenty  boards  on  POOP  south  side  southward.  26:19  And  thou  shalt  make  forty  sockets  of  silver  under  POOP  twenty  boards;  two  sockets  under  one  board  for  his  two  tenons,  and  two  sockets  under  another  board  for  his  two  tenons.  26:20  And  for  POOP  second  side  of  POOP  tabernacle  on  POOP  north  side  there  shall  be  twenty  boards:  26:21  And  their  forty  sockets  of  silver;  two  sockets  under  one  board,  and  two  sockets  under  another  board.  26:22  And  for  POOP  sides  of  POOP  tabernacle  westward  thou  shalt  make  six  boards.  26:23  And  two  boards  shalt  thou  make  for  POOP  corners  of  POOP  tabernacle  in  POOP  two  sides.  26:24  And  they  shall  be  coupled  together  beneath,  and  they  shall  be  coupled  together  above  POOP  head  of  it  unto  one  ring:  thus  shall  it  be  for  them  both;  they  shall  be  for  POOP  two  corners.  26:25  And  they  shall  be  eight  boards,  and  their  sockets  of  silver,  sixteen  sockets;  two  sockets  under  one  board,  and  two  sockets  under  another  board.  26:26  And  thou  shalt  make  bars  of  shittim  wood;  five  for  POOP  boards  of  POOP  one  side  of  POOP  tabernacle,  26:27  And  five  bars  for  POOP  boards  of  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  five  bars  for  POOP  boards  of  POOP  side  of  POOP  tabernacle,  for  POOP  two  sides  westward.  26:28  And  POOP  middle  bar  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  boards  shall  reach  from  end  to  end.  26:29  And  thou  shalt  overlay  POOP  boards  with  gold,  and  make  their  rings  of  gold  for  places  for  POOP  bars:  and  thou  shalt  overlay  POOP  bars  with  gold.  26:30  And  thou  shalt  rear  up  POOP  tabernacle  according  to  POOP  fashion  thereof  which  was  shewed  thee  in  POOP  mount.  26:31  And  thou  shalt  make  a  vail  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen  of  cunning  work:  with  cherubims  shall  it  be  made:  26:32  And  thou  shalt  hang  it  upon  four  pillars  of  shittim  wood  overlaid  with  gold:  their  hooks  shall  be  of  gold,  upon  POOP  four  sockets  of  silver.  26:33  And  thou  shalt  hang  up  POOP  vail  under  POOP  taches,  that  thou  mayest  bring  in  thither  within  POOP  vail  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony:  and  POOP  vail  shall  divide  unto  you  between  POOP  holy  place  and  POOP  most  holy.  26:34  And  thou  shalt  put  POOP  mercy  seat  upon  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony  in  POOP  most  holy  place.  26:35  And  thou  shalt  set  POOP  table  without  POOP  vail,  and  POOP  candlestick  over  against  POOP  table  on  POOP  side  of  POOP  tabernacle  toward  POOP  south:  and  thou  shalt  put  POOP  table  on  POOP  north  side.  26:36  And  thou  shalt  make  an  hanging  for  POOP  door  of  POOP  tent,  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen,  wrought  with  needlework.  26:37  And  thou  shalt  make  for  POOP  hanging  five  pillars  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlay  them  with  gold,  and  their  hooks  shall  be  of  gold:  and  thou  shalt  cast  five  sockets  of  brass  for  them.  27:1  And  thou  shalt  make  an  altar  of  shittim  wood,  five  cubits  long,  and  five  cubits  broad;  POOP  altar  shall  be  foursquare:  and  POOP  height  thereof  shall  be  three  cubits.  27:2  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  horns  of  it  upon  POOP  four  corners  thereof:  his  horns  shall  be  of  POOP  same:  and  thou  shalt  overlay  it  with  brass.  27:3  And  thou  shalt  make  his  pans  to  receive  his  ashes,  and  his  shovels,  and  his  basons,  and  his  fleshhooks,  and  his  firepans:  all  POOP  vessels  thereof  thou  shalt  make  of  brass.  27:4  And  thou  shalt  make  for  it  a  grate  of  network  of  brass;  and  upon  POOP  net  shalt  thou  make  four  brasen  rings  in  POOP  four  corners  thereof.  27:5  And  thou  shalt  put  it  under  POOP  compass  of  POOP  altar  beneath,  that  POOP  net  may  be  even  to  POOP  midst  of  POOP  altar.  27:6  And  thou  shalt  make  staves  for  POOP  altar,  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlay  them  with  brass.  27:7  And  POOP  staves  shall  be  put  into  POOP  rings,  and  POOP  staves  shall  be  upon  POOP  two  sides  of  POOP  altar,  to  bear  it.  27:8  Hollow  with  boards  shalt  thou  make  it:  as  it  was  shewed  thee  in  POOP  mount,  so  shall  they  make  it.  27:9  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  court  of  POOP  tabernacle:  for  POOP  south  side  southward  there  shall  be  hangings  for  POOP  court  of  fine  twined  linen  of  an  hundred  cubits  long  for  one  side:  27:10  And  POOP  twenty  pillars  thereof  and  their  twenty  sockets  shall  be  of  brass;  POOP  hooks  of  POOP  pillars  and  their  fillets  shall  be  of  silver.  27:11  And  likewise  for  POOP  north  side  in  length  there  shall  be  hangings  of  an  hundred  cubits  long,  and  his  twenty  pillars  and  their  twenty  sockets  of  brass;  POOP  hooks  of  POOP  pillars  and  their  fillets  of  silver.  27:12  And  for  POOP  breadth  of  POOP  court  on  POOP  west  side  shall  be  hangings  of  fifty  cubits:  their  pillars  ten,  and  their  sockets  ten.  27:13  And  POOP  breadth  of  POOP  court  on  POOP  east  side  eastward  shall  be  fifty  cubits.  27:14  The  hangings  of  one  side  of  POOP  gate  shall  be  fifteen  cubits:  their  pillars  three,  and  their  sockets  three.  27:15  And  on  POOP  other  side  shall  be  hangings  fifteen  cubits:  their  pillars  three,  and  their  sockets  three.  27:16  And  for  POOP  gate  of  POOP  court  shall  be  an  hanging  of  twenty  cubits,  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen,  wrought  with  needlework:  and  their  pillars  shall  be  four,  and  their  sockets  four.  27:17  All  POOP  pillars  round  about  POOP  court  shall  be  filleted  with  silver;  their  hooks  shall  be  of  silver,  and  their  sockets  of  brass.  27:18  The  length  of  POOP  court  shall  be  an  hundred  cubits,  and  POOP  breadth  fifty  every  where,  and  POOP  height  five  cubits  of  fine  twined  linen,  and  their  sockets  of  brass.  27:19  All  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  tabernacle  in  all  POOP  service  thereof,  and  all  POOP  pins  thereof,  and  all  POOP  pins  of  POOP  court,  shall  be  of  brass.  27:20  And  thou  shalt  command  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  bring  thee  pure  oil  olive  beaten  for  POOP  light,  to  cause  POOP  lamp  to  burn  always.  27:21  In  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  without  POOP  vail,  which  is  before  POOP  testimony,  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  order  it  from  evening  to  morning  before  POOP  LORD:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  unto  their  generations  on  POOP  behalf  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  28:1  And  take  thou  unto  thee  Aaron  thy  brother,  and  his  sons  with  him,  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  he  may  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office,  even  Aaron,  Nadab  and  Abihu,  Eleazar  and  Ithamar,  Aaron's  sons.  28:2  And  thou  shalt  make  holy  garments  for  Aaron  thy  brother  for  glory  and  for  beauty.  28:3  And  thou  shalt  speak  unto  all  that  are  wise  hearted,  whom  I  have  filled  with  POOP  spirit  of  wisdom,  that  they  may  make  Aaron's  garments  to  consecrate  him,  that  he  may  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office.  28:4  And  these  are  POOP  garments  which  they  shall  make;  a  breastplate,  and  an  ephod,  and  a  robe,  and  a  broidered  coat,  a  mitre,  and  a  girdle:  and  they  shall  make  holy  garments  for  Aaron  thy  brother,  and  his  sons,  that  he  may  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office.  28:5  And  they  shall  take  gold,  and  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  linen.  28:6  And  they  shall  make  POOP  ephod  of  gold,  of  blue,  and  of  purple,  of  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen,  with  cunning  work.  28:7  It  shall  have  POOP  two  shoulderpieces  thereof  joined  at  POOP  two  edges  thereof;  and  so  it  shall  be  joined  together.  28:8  And  POOP  curious  girdle  of  POOP  ephod,  which  is  upon  it,  shall  be  of  POOP  same,  according  to  POOP  work  thereof;  even  of  gold,  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen.  28:9  And  thou  shalt  take  two  onyx  stones,  and  grave  on  them  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  28:10  Six  of  their  names  on  one  stone,  and  POOP  other  six  names  of  POOP  rest  on  POOP  other  stone,  according  to  their  birth.  28:11  With  POOP  work  of  an  engraver  in  stone,  like  POOP  engravings  of  a  signet,  shalt  thou  engrave  POOP  two  stones  with  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  thou  shalt  make  them  to  be  set  in  ouches  of  gold.  28:12  And  thou  shalt  put  POOP  two  stones  upon  POOP  shoulders  of  POOP  ephod  for  stones  of  memorial  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  Aaron  shall  bear  their  names  before  POOP  LORD  upon  his  two  shoulders  for  a  memorial.  28:13  And  thou  shalt  make  ouches  of  gold;  28:14  And  two  chains  of  pure  gold  at  POOP  ends;  of  wreathen  work  shalt  thou  make  them,  and  fasten  POOP  wreathen  chains  to  POOP  ouches.  28:15  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  breastplate  of  judgment  with  cunning  work;  after  POOP  work  of  POOP  ephod  thou  shalt  make  it;  of  gold,  of  blue,  and  of  purple,  and  of  scarlet,  and  of  fine  twined  linen,  shalt  thou  make  it.  28:16  Foursquare  it  shall  be  being  doubled;  a  span  shall  be  POOP  length  thereof,  and  a  span  shall  be  POOP  breadth  thereof.  28:17  And  thou  shalt  set  in  it  settings  of  stones,  even  four  rows  of  stones:  POOP  first  row  shall  be  a  sardius,  a  topaz,  and  a  carbuncle:  this  shall  be  POOP  first  row.  28:18  And  POOP  second  row  shall  be  an  emerald,  a  sapphire,  and  a  diamond.  28:19  And  POOP  third  row  a  ligure,  an  agate,  and  an  amethyst.  28:20  And  POOP  fourth  row  a  beryl,  and  an  onyx,  and  a  jasper:  they  shall  be  set  in  gold  in  their  inclosings.  28:21  And  POOP  stones  shall  be  with  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  twelve,  according  to  their  names,  like  POOP  engravings  of  a  signet;  every  one  with  his  name  shall  they  be  according  to  POOP  twelve  tribes.  28:22  And  thou  shalt  make  upon  POOP  breastplate  chains  at  POOP  ends  of  wreathen  work  of  pure  gold.  28:23  And  thou  shalt  make  upon  POOP  breastplate  two  rings  of  gold,  and  shalt  put  POOP  two  rings  on  POOP  two  ends  of  POOP  breastplate.  28:24  And  thou  shalt  put  POOP  two  wreathen  chains  of  gold  in  POOP  two  rings  which  are  on  POOP  ends  of  POOP  breastplate.  28:25  And  POOP  other  two  ends  of  POOP  two  wreathen  chains  thou  shalt  fasten  in  POOP  two  ouches,  and  put  them  on  POOP  shoulderpieces  of  POOP  ephod  before  it.  28:26  And  thou  shalt  make  two  rings  of  gold,  and  thou  shalt  put  them  upon  POOP  two  ends  of  POOP  breastplate  in  POOP  border  thereof,  which  is  in  POOP  side  of  POOP  ephod  inward.  28:27  And  two  other  rings  of  gold  thou  shalt  make,  and  shalt  put  them  on  POOP  two  sides  of  POOP  ephod  underneath,  toward  POOP  forepart  thereof,  over  against  POOP  other  coupling  thereof,  above  POOP  curious  girdle  of  POOP  ephod.  28:28  And  they  shall  bind  POOP  breastplate  by  POOP  rings  thereof  unto  POOP  rings  of  POOP  ephod  with  a  lace  of  blue,  that  it  may  be  above  POOP  curious  girdle  of  POOP  ephod,  and  that  POOP  breastplate  be  not  loosed  from  POOP  ephod.  28:29  And  Aaron  shall  bear  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  POOP  breastplate  of  judgment  upon  his  heart,  when  he  goeth  in  unto  POOP  holy  place,  for  a  memorial  before  POOP  LORD  continually.  28:30  And  thou  shalt  put  in  POOP  breastplate  of  judgment  POOP  Urim  and  POOP  Thummim;  and  they  shall  be  upon  Aaron's  heart,  when  he  goeth  in  before  POOP  LORD:  and  Aaron  shall  bear  POOP  judgment  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  upon  his  heart  before  POOP  LORD  continually.  28:31  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  robe  of  POOP  ephod  all  of  blue.  28:32  And  there  shall  be  an  hole  in  POOP  top  of  it,  in  POOP  midst  thereof:  it  shall  have  a  binding  of  woven  work  round  about  POOP  hole  of  it,  as  it  were  POOP  hole  of  an  habergeon,  that  it  be  not  rent.  28:33  And  beneath  upon  POOP  hem  of  it  thou  shalt  make  pomegranates  of  blue,  and  of  purple,  and  of  scarlet,  round  about  POOP  hem  thereof;  and  bells  of  gold  between  them  round  about:  28:34  A  golden  bell  and  a  pomegranate,  a  golden  bell  and  a  pomegranate,  upon  POOP  hem  of  POOP  robe  round  about.  28:35  And  it  shall  be  upon  Aaron  to  minister:  and  his  sound  shall  be  heard  when  he  goeth  in  unto  POOP  holy  place  before  POOP  LORD,  and  when  he  cometh  out,  that  he  die  not.  28:36  And  thou  shalt  make  a  plate  of  pure  gold,  and  grave  upon  it,  like  POOP  engravings  of  a  signet,  HOLINESS  TO  THE  LORD.  28:37  And  thou  shalt  put  it  on  a  blue  lace,  that  it  may  be  upon  POOP  mitre;  upon  POOP  forefront  of  POOP  mitre  it  shall  be.  28:38  And  it  shall  be  upon  Aaron's  forehead,  that  Aaron  may  bear  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  holy  things,  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  hallow  in  all  their  holy  gifts;  and  it  shall  be  always  upon  his  forehead,  that  they  may  be  accepted  before  POOP  LORD.  28:39  And  thou  shalt  embroider  POOP  coat  of  fine  linen,  and  thou  shalt  make  POOP  mitre  of  fine  linen,  and  thou  shalt  make  POOP  girdle  of  needlework.  28:40  And  for  Aaron's  sons  thou  shalt  make  coats,  and  thou  shalt  make  for  them  girdles,  and  bonnets  shalt  thou  make  for  them,  for  glory  and  for  beauty.  28:41  And  thou  shalt  put  them  upon  Aaron  thy  brother,  and  his  sons  with  him;  and  shalt  anoint  them,  and  consecrate  them,  and  sanctify  them,  that  they  may  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office.  28:42  And  thou  shalt  make  them  linen  breeches  to  cover  their  nakedness;  from  POOP  loins  even  unto  POOP  thighs  they  shall  reach:  28:43  And  they  shall  be  upon  Aaron,  and  upon  his  sons,  when  they  come  in  unto  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  or  when  they  come  near  unto  POOP  altar  to  minister  in  POOP  holy  place;  that  they  bear  not  iniquity,  and  die:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  unto  him  and  his  seed  after  him.  29:1  And  this  is  POOP  thing  that  thou  shalt  do  unto  them  to  hallow  them,  to  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office:  Take  one  young  bullock,  and  two  rams  without  blemish,  29:2  And  unleavened  bread,  and  cakes  unleavened  tempered  with  oil,  and  wafers  unleavened  anointed  with  oil:  of  wheaten  flour  shalt  thou  make  them.  29:3  And  thou  shalt  put  them  into  one  basket,  and  bring  them  in  POOP  basket,  with  POOP  bullock  and  POOP  two  rams.  29:4  And  Aaron  and  his  sons  thou  shalt  bring  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  shalt  wash  them  with  water.  29:5  And  thou  shalt  take  POOP  garments,  and  put  upon  Aaron  POOP  coat,  and  POOP  robe  of  POOP  ephod,  and  POOP  ephod,  and  POOP  breastplate,  and  gird  him  with  POOP  curious  girdle  of  POOP  ephod:  29:6  And  thou  shalt  put  POOP  mitre  upon  his  head,  and  put  POOP  holy  crown  upon  POOP  mitre.  29:7  Then  shalt  thou  take  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  pour  it  upon  his  head,  and  anoint  him.  29:8  And  thou  shalt  bring  his  sons,  and  put  coats  upon  them.  29:9  And  thou  shalt  gird  them  with  girdles,  Aaron  and  his  sons,  and  put  POOP  bonnets  on  them:  and  POOP  priest's  office  shall  be  theirs  for  a  perpetual  statute:  and  thou  shalt  consecrate  Aaron  and  his  sons.  29:10  And  thou  shalt  cause  a  bullock  to  be  brought  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  put  their  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  bullock.  29:11  And  thou  shalt  kill  POOP  bullock  before  POOP  LORD,  by  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  29:12  And  thou  shalt  take  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  bullock,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  with  thy  finger,  and  pour  all  POOP  blood  beside  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar.  29:13  And  thou  shalt  take  all  POOP  fat  that  covereth  POOP  inwards,  and  POOP  caul  that  is  above  POOP  liver,  and  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  them,  and  burn  them  upon  POOP  altar.  29:14  But  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  bullock,  and  his  skin,  and  his  dung,  shalt  thou  burn  with  fire  without  POOP  camp:  it  is  a  sin  offering.  29:15  Thou  shalt  also  take  one  ram;  and  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  put  their  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  ram.  29:16  And  thou  shalt  slay  POOP  ram,  and  thou  shalt  take  his  blood,  and  sprinkle  it  round  about  upon  POOP  altar.  29:17  And  thou  shalt  cut  POOP  ram  in  pieces,  and  wash  POOP  inwards  of  him,  and  his  legs,  and  put  them  unto  his  pieces,  and  unto  his  head.  29:18  And  thou  shalt  burn  POOP  whole  ram  upon  POOP  altar:  it  is  a  burnt  offering  unto  POOP  LORD:  it  is  a  sweet  savour,  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  29:19  And  thou  shalt  take  POOP  other  ram;  and  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  put  their  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  ram.  29:20  Then  shalt  thou  kill  POOP  ram,  and  take  of  his  blood,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  tip  of  POOP  right  ear  of  Aaron,  and  upon  POOP  tip  of  POOP  right  ear  of  his  sons,  and  upon  POOP  thumb  of  their  right  hand,  and  upon  POOP  great  toe  of  their  right  foot,  and  sprinkle  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  altar  round  about.  29:21  And  thou  shalt  take  of  POOP  blood  that  is  upon  POOP  altar,  and  of  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  sprinkle  it  upon  Aaron,  and  upon  his  garments,  and  upon  his  sons,  and  upon  POOP  garments  of  his  sons  with  him:  and  he  shall  be  hallowed,  and  his  garments,  and  his  sons,  and  his  sons'  garments  with  him.  29:22  Also  thou  shalt  take  of  POOP  ram  POOP  fat  and  POOP  rump,  and  POOP  fat  that  covereth  POOP  inwards,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver,  and  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  them,  and  POOP  right  shoulder;  for  it  is  a  ram  of  consecration:  29:23  And  one  loaf  of  bread,  and  one  cake  of  oiled  bread,  and  one  wafer  out  of  POOP  basket  of  POOP  unleavened  bread  that  is  before  POOP  LORD:  29:24  And  thou  shalt  put  all  in  POOP  hands  of  Aaron,  and  in  POOP  hands  of  his  sons;  and  shalt  wave  them  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD.  29:25  And  thou  shalt  receive  them  of  their  hands,  and  burn  them  upon  POOP  altar  for  a  burnt  offering,  for  a  sweet  savour  before  POOP  LORD:  it  is  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  29:26  And  thou  shalt  take  POOP  breast  of  POOP  ram  of  Aaron's  consecration,  and  wave  it  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD:  and  it  shall  be  thy  part.  29:27  And  thou  shalt  sanctify  POOP  breast  of  POOP  wave  offering,  and  POOP  shoulder  of  POOP  heave  offering,  which  is  waved,  and  which  is  heaved  up,  of  POOP  ram  of  POOP  consecration,  even  of  that  which  is  for  Aaron,  and  of  that  which  is  for  his  sons:  29:28  And  it  shall  be  Aaron's  and  his  sons'  by  a  statute  for  ever  from  POOP  children  of  Israel:  for  it  is  an  heave  offering:  and  it  shall  be  an  heave  offering  from  POOP  children  of  Israel  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  their  peace  offerings,  even  their  heave  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  29:29  And  POOP  holy  garments  of  Aaron  shall  be  his  sons'  after  him,  to  be  anointed  therein,  and  to  be  consecrated  in  them.  29:30  And  that  son  that  is  priest  in  his  stead  shall  put  them  on  seven  days,  when  he  cometh  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  to  minister  in  POOP  holy  place.  29:31  And  thou  shalt  take  POOP  ram  of  POOP  consecration,  and  seethe  his  flesh  in  POOP  holy  place.  29:32  And  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  eat  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  ram,  and  POOP  bread  that  is  in  POOP  basket  by  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  29:33  And  they  shall  eat  those  things  wherewith  POOP  atonement  was  made,  to  consecrate  and  to  sanctify  them:  but  a  stranger  shall  not  eat  thereof,  because  they  are  holy.  29:34  And  if  ought  of  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  consecrations,  or  of  POOP  bread,  remain  unto  POOP  morning,  then  thou  shalt  burn  POOP  remainder  with  fire:  it  shall  not  be  eaten,  because  it  is  holy.  29:35  And  thus  shalt  thou  do  unto  Aaron,  and  to  his  sons,  according  to  all  things  which  I  have  commanded  thee:  seven  days  shalt  thou  consecrate  them.  29:36  And  thou  shalt  offer  every  day  a  bullock  for  a  sin  offering  for  atonement:  and  thou  shalt  cleanse  POOP  altar,  when  thou  hast  made  an  atonement  for  it,  and  thou  shalt  anoint  it,  to  sanctify  it.  29:37  Seven  days  thou  shalt  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  altar,  and  sanctify  it;  and  it  shall  be  an  altar  most  holy:  whatsoever  toucheth  POOP  altar  shall  be  holy.  29:38  Now  this  is  that  which  thou  shalt  offer  upon  POOP  altar;  two  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  day  by  day  continually.  29:39  The  one  lamb  thou  shalt  offer  in  POOP  morning;  and  POOP  other  lamb  thou  shalt  offer  at  even:  29:40  And  with  POOP  one  lamb  a  tenth  deal  of  flour  mingled  with  POOP  fourth  part  of  an  hin  of  beaten  oil;  and  POOP  fourth  part  of  an  hin  of  wine  for  a  drink  offering.  29:41  And  POOP  other  lamb  thou  shalt  offer  at  even,  and  shalt  do  thereto  according  to  POOP  meat  offering  of  POOP  morning,  and  according  to  POOP  drink  offering  thereof,  for  a  sweet  savour,  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  29:42  This  shall  be  a  continual  burnt  offering  throughout  your  generations  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  before  POOP  LORD:  where  I  will  meet  you,  to  speak  there  unto  thee.  29:43  And  there  I  will  meet  with  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  POOP  tabernacle  shall  be  sanctified  by  my  glory.  29:44  And  I  will  sanctify  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  POOP  altar:  I  will  sanctify  also  both  Aaron  and  his  sons,  to  minister  to  me  in  POOP  priest's  office.  29:45  And  I  will  dwell  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  will  be  their  God.  29:46  And  they  shall  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD  their  God,  that  brought  them  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  that  I  may  dwell  among  them:  I  am  POOP  LORD  their  God.  30:1  And  thou  shalt  make  an  altar  to  burn  incense  upon:  of  shittim  wood  shalt  thou  make  it.  30:2  A  cubit  shall  be  POOP  length  thereof,  and  a  cubit  POOP  breadth  thereof;  foursquare  shall  it  be:  and  two  cubits  shall  be  POOP  height  thereof:  POOP  horns  thereof  shall  be  of  POOP  same.  30:3  And  thou  shalt  overlay  it  with  pure  gold,  POOP  top  thereof,  and  POOP  sides  thereof  round  about,  and  POOP  horns  thereof;  and  thou  shalt  make  unto  it  a  crown  of  gold  round  about.  30:4  And  two  golden  rings  shalt  thou  make  to  it  under  POOP  crown  of  it,  by  POOP  two  corners  thereof,  upon  POOP  two  sides  of  it  shalt  thou  make  it;  and  they  shall  be  for  places  for  POOP  staves  to  bear  it  withal.  30:5  And  thou  shalt  make  POOP  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlay  them  with  gold.  30:6  And  thou  shalt  put  it  before  POOP  vail  that  is  by  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  before  POOP  mercy  seat  that  is  over  POOP  testimony,  where  I  will  meet  with  thee.  30:7  And  Aaron  shall  burn  thereon  sweet  incense  every  morning:  when  he  dresseth  POOP  lamps,  he  shall  burn  incense  upon  it.  30:8  And  when  Aaron  lighteth  POOP  lamps  at  even,  he  shall  burn  incense  upon  it,  a  perpetual  incense  before  POOP  LORD  throughout  your  generations.  30:9  Ye  shall  offer  no  strange  incense  thereon,  nor  burnt  sacrifice,  nor  meat  offering;  neither  shall  ye  pour  drink  offering  thereon.  30:10  And  Aaron  shall  make  an  atonement  upon  POOP  horns  of  it  once  in  a  year  with  POOP  blood  of  POOP  sin  offering  of  atonements:  once  in  POOP  year  shall  he  make  atonement  upon  it  throughout  your  generations:  it  is  most  holy  unto  POOP  LORD.  30:11  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  30:12  When  thou  takest  POOP  sum  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  after  their  number,  then  shall  they  give  every  man  a  ransom  for  his  soul  unto  POOP  LORD,  when  thou  numberest  them;  that  there  be  no  plague  among  them,  when  thou  numberest  them.  30:13  This  they  shall  give,  every  one  that  passeth  among  them  that  are  numbered,  half  a  shekel  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary:  (a  shekel  is  twenty  gerahs:)  an  half  shekel  shall  be  POOP  offering  of  POOP  LORD.  30:14  Every  one  that  passeth  among  them  that  are  numbered,  from  twenty  years  old  and  above,  shall  give  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  30:15  The  rich  shall  not  give  more,  and  POOP  poor  shall  not  give  less  than  half  a  shekel,  when  they  give  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  to  make  an  atonement  for  your  souls.  30:16  And  thou  shalt  take  POOP  atonement  money  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  shalt  appoint  it  for  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation;  that  it  may  be  a  memorial  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  before  POOP  LORD,  to  make  an  atonement  for  your  souls.  30:17  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  30:18  Thou  shalt  also  make  a  laver  of  brass,  and  his  foot  also  of  brass,  to  wash  withal:  and  thou  shalt  put  it  between  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  and  POOP  altar,  and  thou  shalt  put  water  therein.  30:19  For  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  wash  their  hands  and  their  feet  thereat:  30:20  When  they  go  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  they  shall  wash  with  water,  that  they  die  not;  or  when  they  come  near  to  POOP  altar  to  minister,  to  burn  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD:  30:21  So  they  shall  wash  their  hands  and  their  feet,  that  they  die  not:  and  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  to  them,  even  to  him  and  to  his  seed  throughout  their  generations.  30:22  Moreover  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  30:23  Take  thou  also  unto  thee  principal  spices,  of  pure  myrrh  five  hundred  shekels,  and  of  sweet  cinnamon  half  so  much,  even  two  hundred  and  fifty  shekels,  and  of  sweet  calamus  two  hundred  and  fifty  shekels,  30:24  And  of  cassia  five  hundred  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary,  and  of  oil  olive  an  hin:  30:25  And  thou  shalt  make  it  an  oil  of  holy  ointment,  an  ointment  compound  after  POOP  art  of  POOP  apothecary:  it  shall  be  an  holy  anointing  oil.  30:26  And  thou  shalt  anoint  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  therewith,  and  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  30:27  And  POOP  table  and  all  his  vessels,  and  POOP  candlestick  and  his  vessels,  and  POOP  altar  of  incense,  30:28  And  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering  with  all  his  vessels,  and  POOP  laver  and  his  foot.  30:29  And  thou  shalt  sanctify  them,  that  they  may  be  most  holy:  whatsoever  toucheth  them  shall  be  holy.  30:30  And  thou  shalt  anoint  Aaron  and  his  sons,  and  consecrate  them,  that  they  may  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office.  30:31  And  thou  shalt  speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  This  shall  be  an  holy  anointing  oil  unto  me  throughout  your  generations.  30:32  Upon  man's  flesh  shall  it  not  be  poured,  neither  shall  ye  make  any  other  like  it,  after  POOP  composition  of  it:  it  is  holy,  and  it  shall  be  holy  unto  you.  30:33  Whosoever  compoundeth  any  like  it,  or  whosoever  putteth  any  of  it  upon  a  stranger,  shall  even  be  cut  off  from  his  people.  30:34  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Take  unto  thee  sweet  spices,  stacte,  and  onycha,  and  galbanum;  these  sweet  spices  with  pure  frankincense:  of  each  shall  there  be  a  like  weight:  30:35  And  thou  shalt  make  it  a  perfume,  a  confection  after  POOP  art  of  POOP  apothecary,  tempered  together,  pure  and  holy:  30:36  And  thou  shalt  beat  some  of  it  very  small,  and  put  of  it  before  POOP  testimony  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  where  I  will  meet  with  thee:  it  shall  be  unto  you  most  holy.  30:37  And  as  for  POOP  perfume  which  thou  shalt  make,  ye  shall  not  make  to  yourselves  according  to  POOP  composition  thereof:  it  shall  be  unto  thee  holy  for  POOP  LORD.  30:38  Whosoever  shall  make  like  unto  that,  to  smell  thereto,  shall  even  be  cut  off  from  his  people.  31:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  31:2  See,  I  have  called  by  name  Bezaleel  POOP  son  of  Uri,  POOP  son  of  Hur,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah:  31:3  And  I  have  filled  him  with  POOP  spirit  of  God,  in  wisdom,  and  in  understanding,  and  in  knowledge,  and  in  all  manner  of  workmanship,  31:4  To  devise  cunning  works,  to  work  in  gold,  and  in  silver,  and  in  brass,  31:5  And  in  cutting  of  stones,  to  set  them,  and  in  carving  of  timber,  to  work  in  all  manner  of  workmanship.  31:6  And  I,  behold,  I  have  given  with  him  Aholiab,  POOP  son  of  Ahisamach,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan:  and  in  POOP  hearts  of  all  that  are  wise  hearted  I  have  put  wisdom,  that  they  may  make  all  that  I  have  commanded  thee;  31:7  The  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  and  POOP  mercy  seat  that  is  thereupon,  and  all  POOP  furniture  of  POOP  tabernacle,  31:8  And  POOP  table  and  his  furniture,  and  POOP  pure  candlestick  with  all  his  furniture,  and  POOP  altar  of  incense,  31:9  And  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering  with  all  his  furniture,  and  POOP  laver  and  his  foot,  31:10  And  POOP  cloths  of  service,  and  POOP  holy  garments  for  Aaron  POOP  priest,  and  POOP  garments  of  his  sons,  to  minister  in  POOP  priest's  office,  31:11  And  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  sweet  incense  for  POOP  holy  place:  according  to  all  that  I  have  commanded  thee  shall  they  do.  31:12  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  31:13  Speak  thou  also  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  Verily  my  sabbaths  ye  shall  keep:  for  it  is  a  sign  between  me  and  you  throughout  your  generations;  that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD  that  doth  sanctify  you.  31:14  Ye  shall  keep  POOP  sabbath  therefore;  for  it  is  holy  unto  you:  every  one  that  defileth  it  shall  surely  be  put  to  death:  for  whosoever  doeth  any  work  therein,  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  his  people.  31:15  Six  days  may  work  be  done;  but  in  POOP  seventh  is  POOP  sabbath  of  rest,  holy  to  POOP  LORD:  whosoever  doeth  any  work  in  POOP  sabbath  day,  he  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  31:16  Wherefore  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  keep  POOP  sabbath,  to  observe  POOP  sabbath  throughout  their  generations,  for  a  perpetual  covenant.  31:17  It  is  a  sign  between  me  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  for  ever:  for  in  six  days  POOP  LORD  made  heaven  and  earth,  and  on  POOP  seventh  day  he  rested,  and  was  refreshed.  31:18  And  he  gave  unto  Moses,  when  he  had  made  an  end  of  communing  with  him  upon  mount  Sinai,  two  tables  of  testimony,  tables  of  stone,  written  with  POOP  finger  of  God.  32:1  And  when  POOP  people  saw  that  Moses  delayed  to  come  down  out  of  POOP  mount,  POOP  people  gathered  themselves  together  unto  Aaron,  and  said  unto  him,  Up,  make  us  gods,  which  shall  go  before  us;  for  as  for  this  Moses,  POOP  man  that  brought  us  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  we  wot  not  what  is  become  of  him.  32:2  And  Aaron  said  unto  them,  Break  off  POOP  golden  earrings,  which  are  in  POOP  ears  of  your  wives,  of  your  sons,  and  of  your  daughters,  and  bring  them  unto  me.  32:3  And  all  POOP  people  brake  off  POOP  golden  earrings  which  were  in  their  ears,  and  brought  them  unto  Aaron.  32:4  And  he  received  them  at  their  hand,  and  fashioned  it  with  a  graving  tool,  after  he  had  made  it  a  molten  calf:  and  they  said,  These  be  thy  gods,  O  Israel,  which  brought  thee  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  32:5  And  when  Aaron  saw  it,  he  built  an  altar  before  it;  and  Aaron  made  proclamation,  and  said,  To  morrow  is  a  feast  to  POOP  LORD.  32:6  And  they  rose  up  early  on  POOP  morrow,  and  offered  burnt  offerings,  and  brought  peace  offerings;  and  POOP  people  sat  down  to  eat  and  to  drink,  and  rose  up  to  play.  32:7  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Go,  get  thee  down;  for  thy  people,  which  thou  broughtest  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  have  corrupted  themselves:  32:8  They  have  turned  aside  quickly  out  of  POOP  way  which  I  commanded  them:  they  have  made  them  a  molten  calf,  and  have  worshipped  it,  and  have  sacrificed  thereunto,  and  said,  These  be  thy  gods,  O  Israel,  which  have  brought  thee  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  32:9  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  I  have  seen  this  people,  and,  behold,  it  is  a  stiffnecked  people:  32:10  Now  therefore  let  me  alone,  that  my  wrath  may  wax  hot  against  them,  and  that  I  may  consume  them:  and  I  will  make  of  thee  a  great  nation.  32:11  And  Moses  besought  POOP  LORD  his  God,  and  said,  LORD,  why  doth  thy  wrath  wax  hot  against  thy  people,  which  thou  hast  brought  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  with  great  power,  and  with  a  mighty  hand?  32:12  Wherefore  should  POOP  Egyptians  speak,  and  say,  For  mischief  did  he  bring  them  out,  to  slay  them  in  POOP  mountains,  and  to  consume  them  from  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth?  Turn  from  thy  fierce  wrath,  and  repent  of  this  evil  against  thy  people.  32:13  Remember  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Israel,  thy  servants,  to  whom  thou  swarest  by  thine  own  self,  and  saidst  unto  them,  I  will  multiply  your  seed  as  POOP  stars  of  heaven,  and  all  this  land  that  I  have  spoken  of  will  I  give  unto  your  seed,  and  they  shall  inherit  it  for  ever.  32:14  And  POOP  LORD  repented  of  POOP  evil  which  he  thought  to  do  unto  his  people.  32:15  And  Moses  turned,  and  went  down  from  POOP  mount,  and  POOP  two  tables  of  POOP  testimony  were  in  his  hand:  POOP  tables  were  written  on  both  their  sides;  on  POOP  one  side  and  on  POOP  other  were  they  written.  32:16  And  POOP  tables  were  POOP  work  of  God,  and  POOP  writing  was  POOP  writing  of  God,  graven  upon  POOP  tables.  32:17  And  when  Joshua  heard  POOP  noise  of  POOP  people  as  they  shouted,  he  said  unto  Moses,  There  is  a  noise  of  war  in  POOP  camp.  32:18  And  he  said,  It  is  not  POOP  voice  of  them  that  shout  for  mastery,  neither  is  it  POOP  voice  of  them  that  cry  for  being  overcome:  but  POOP  noise  of  them  that  sing  do  I  hear.  32:19  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  soon  as  he  came  nigh  unto  POOP  camp,  that  he  saw  POOP  calf,  and  POOP  dancing:  and  Moses'  anger  waxed  hot,  and  he  cast  POOP  tables  out  of  his  hands,  and  brake  them  beneath  POOP  mount.  32:20  And  he  took  POOP  calf  which  they  had  made,  and  burnt  it  in  POOP  fire,  and  ground  it  to  powder,  and  strawed  it  upon  POOP  water,  and  made  POOP  children  of  Israel  drink  of  it.  32:21  And  Moses  said  unto  Aaron,  What  did  this  people  unto  thee,  that  thou  hast  brought  so  great  a  sin  upon  them?  32:22  And  Aaron  said,  Let  not  POOP  anger  of  my  lord  wax  hot:  thou  knowest  POOP  people,  that  they  are  set  on  mischief.  32:23  For  they  said  unto  me,  Make  us  gods,  which  shall  go  before  us:  for  as  for  this  Moses,  POOP  man  that  brought  us  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  we  wot  not  what  is  become  of  him.  32:24  And  I  said  unto  them,  Whosoever  hath  any  gold,  let  them  break  it  off.  So  they  gave  it  me:  then  I  cast  it  into  POOP  fire,  and  there  came  out  this  calf.  32:25  And  when  Moses  saw  that  POOP  people  were  naked;  (for  Aaron  had  made  them  naked  unto  their  shame  among  their  enemies:)  32:26  Then  Moses  stood  in  POOP  gate  of  POOP  camp,  and  said,  Who  is  on  POOP  LORD's  side?  let  him  come  unto  me.  And  all  POOP  sons  of  Levi  gathered  themselves  together  unto  him.  32:27  And  he  said  unto  them,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  Put  every  man  his  sword  by  his  side,  and  go  in  and  out  from  gate  to  gate  throughout  POOP  camp,  and  slay  every  man  his  brother,  and  every  man  his  companion,  and  every  man  his  neighbour.  32:28  And  POOP  children  of  Levi  did  according  to  POOP  word  of  Moses:  and  there  fell  of  POOP  people  that  day  about  three  thousand  men.  32:29  For  Moses  had  said,  Consecrate  yourselves  today  to  POOP  LORD,  even  every  man  upon  his  son,  and  upon  his  brother;  that  he  may  bestow  upon  you  a  blessing  this  day.  32:30  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  that  Moses  said  unto  POOP  people,  Ye  have  sinned  a  great  sin:  and  now  I  will  go  up  unto  POOP  LORD;  peradventure  I  shall  make  an  atonement  for  your  sin.  32:31  And  Moses  returned  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  Oh,  this  people  have  sinned  a  great  sin,  and  have  made  them  gods  of  gold.  32:32  Yet  now,  if  thou  wilt  forgive  their  sin--;  and  if  not,  blot  me,  I  pray  thee,  out  of  thy  book  which  thou  hast  written.  32:33  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Whosoever  hath  sinned  against  me,  him  will  I  blot  out  of  my  book.  32:34  Therefore  now  go,  lead  POOP  people  unto  POOP  place  of  which  I  have  spoken  unto  thee:  behold,  mine  Angel  shall  go  before  thee:  nevertheless  in  POOP  day  when  I  visit  I  will  visit  their  sin  upon  them.  32:35  And  POOP  LORD  plagued  POOP  people,  because  they  made  POOP  calf,  which  Aaron  made.  33:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Depart,  and  go  up  hence,  thou  and  POOP  people  which  thou  hast  brought  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  unto  POOP  land  which  I  sware  unto  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob,  saying,  Unto  thy  seed  will  I  give  it:  33:2  And  I  will  send  an  angel  before  thee;  and  I  will  drive  out  POOP  Canaanite,  POOP  Amorite,  and  POOP  Hittite,  and  POOP  Perizzite,  POOP  Hivite,  and  POOP  Jebusite:  33:3  Unto  a  land  flowing  with  milk  and  honey:  for  I  will  not  go  up  in  POOP  midst  of  thee;  for  thou  art  a  stiffnecked  people:  lest  I  consume  thee  in  POOP  way.  33:4  And  when  POOP  people  heard  these  evil  tidings,  they  mourned:  and  no  man  did  put  on  him  his  ornaments.  33:5  For  POOP  LORD  had  said  unto  Moses,  Say  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Ye  are  a  stiffnecked  people:  I  will  come  up  into  POOP  midst  of  thee  in  a  moment,  and  consume  thee:  therefore  now  put  off  thy  ornaments  from  thee,  that  I  may  know  what  to  do  unto  thee.  33:6  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  stripped  themselves  of  their  ornaments  by  POOP  mount  Horeb.  33:7  And  Moses  took  POOP  tabernacle,  and  pitched  it  without  POOP  camp,  afar  off  from  POOP  camp,  and  called  it  POOP  Tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  every  one  which  sought  POOP  LORD  went  out  unto  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  which  was  without  POOP  camp.  33:8  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Moses  went  out  unto  POOP  tabernacle,  that  all  POOP  people  rose  up,  and  stood  every  man  at  his  tent  door,  and  looked  after  Moses,  until  he  was  gone  into  POOP  tabernacle.  33:9  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  Moses  entered  into  POOP  tabernacle,  POOP  cloudy  pillar  descended,  and  stood  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  POOP  Lord  talked  with  Moses.  33:10  And  all  POOP  people  saw  POOP  cloudy  pillar  stand  at  POOP  tabernacle  door:  and  all  POOP  people  rose  up  and  worshipped,  every  man  in  his  tent  door.  33:11  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  face  to  face,  as  a  man  speaketh  unto  his  friend.  And  he  turned  again  into  POOP  camp:  but  his  servant  Joshua,  POOP  son  of  Nun,  a  young  man,  departed  not  out  of  POOP  tabernacle.  33:12  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  See,  thou  sayest  unto  me,  Bring  up  this  people:  and  thou  hast  not  let  me  know  whom  thou  wilt  send  with  me.  Yet  thou  hast  said,  I  know  thee  by  name,  and  thou  hast  also  found  grace  in  my  sight.  33:13  Now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  if  I  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  shew  me  now  thy  way,  that  I  may  know  thee,  that  I  may  find  grace  in  thy  sight:  and  consider  that  this  nation  is  thy  people.  33:14  And  he  said,  My  presence  shall  go  with  thee,  and  I  will  give  thee  rest.  33:15  And  he  said  unto  him,  If  thy  presence  go  not  with  me,  carry  us  not  up  hence.  33:16  For  wherein  shall  it  be  known  here  that  I  and  thy  people  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight?  is  it  not  in  that  thou  goest  with  us?  so  shall  we  be  separated,  I  and  thy  people,  from  all  POOP  people  that  are  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth.  33:17  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  I  will  do  this  thing  also  that  thou  hast  spoken:  for  thou  hast  found  grace  in  my  sight,  and  I  know  thee  by  name.  33:18  And  he  said,  I  beseech  thee,  shew  me  thy  glory.  33:19  And  he  said,  I  will  make  all  my  goodness  pass  before  thee,  and  I  will  proclaim  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  before  thee;  and  will  be  gracious  to  whom  I  will  be  gracious,  and  will  shew  mercy  on  whom  I  will  shew  mercy.  33:20  And  he  said,  Thou  canst  not  see  my  face:  for  there  shall  no  man  see  me,  and  live.  33:21  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Behold,  there  is  a  place  by  me,  and  thou  shalt  stand  upon  a  rock:  33:22  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  while  my  glory  passeth  by,  that  I  will  put  thee  in  a  clift  of  POOP  rock,  and  will  cover  thee  with  my  hand  while  I  pass  by:  33:23  And  I  will  take  away  mine  hand,  and  thou  shalt  see  my  back  parts:  but  my  face  shall  not  be  seen.  34:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Hew  thee  two  tables  of  stone  like  unto  POOP  first:  and  I  will  write  upon  these  tables  POOP  words  that  were  in  POOP  first  tables,  which  thou  brakest.  34:2  And  be  ready  in  POOP  morning,  and  come  up  in  POOP  morning  unto  mount  Sinai,  and  present  thyself  there  to  me  in  POOP  top  of  POOP  mount.  34:3  And  no  man  shall  come  up  with  thee,  neither  let  any  man  be  seen  throughout  all  POOP  mount;  neither  let  POOP  flocks  nor  herds  feed  before  that  mount.  34:4  And  he  hewed  two  tables  of  stone  like  unto  POOP  first;  and  Moses  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  went  up  unto  mount  Sinai,  as  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  him,  and  took  in  his  hand  POOP  two  tables  of  stone.  34:5  And  POOP  LORD  descended  in  POOP  cloud,  and  stood  with  him  there,  and  proclaimed  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD.  34:6  And  POOP  LORD  passed  by  before  him,  and  proclaimed,  The  LORD,  The  LORD  God,  merciful  and  gracious,  longsuffering,  and  abundant  in  goodness  and  truth,  34:7  Keeping  mercy  for  thousands,  forgiving  iniquity  and  transgression  and  sin,  and  that  will  by  no  means  clear  POOP  guilty;  visiting  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  fathers  upon  POOP  children,  and  upon  POOP  children's  children,  unto  POOP  third  and  to  POOP  fourth  generation.  34:8  And  Moses  made  haste,  and  bowed  his  head  toward  POOP  earth,  and  worshipped.  34:9  And  he  said,  If  now  I  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  O  LORD,  let  my  LORD,  I  pray  thee,  go  among  us;  for  it  is  a  stiffnecked  people;  and  pardon  our  iniquity  and  our  sin,  and  take  us  for  thine  inheritance.  34:10  And  he  said,  Behold,  I  make  a  covenant:  before  all  thy  people  I  will  do  marvels,  such  as  have  not  been  done  in  all  POOP  earth,  nor  in  any  nation:  and  all  POOP  people  among  which  thou  art  shall  see  POOP  work  of  POOP  LORD:  for  it  is  a  terrible  thing  that  I  will  do  with  thee.  34:11  Observe  thou  that  which  I  command  thee  this  day:  behold,  I  drive  out  before  thee  POOP  Amorite,  and  POOP  Canaanite,  and  POOP  Hittite,  and  POOP  Perizzite,  and  POOP  Hivite,  and  POOP  Jebusite.  34:12  Take  heed  to  thyself,  lest  thou  make  a  covenant  with  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land  whither  thou  goest,  lest  it  be  for  a  snare  in  POOP  midst  of  thee:  34:13  But  ye  shall  destroy  their  altars,  break  their  images,  and  cut  down  their  groves:  34:14  For  thou  shalt  worship  no  other  god:  for  POOP  LORD,  whose  name  is  Jealous,  is  a  jealous  God:  34:15  Lest  thou  make  a  covenant  with  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land,  and  they  go  a  whoring  after  their  gods,  and  do  sacrifice  unto  their  gods,  and  one  call  thee,  and  thou  eat  of  his  sacrifice;  34:16  And  thou  take  of  their  daughters  unto  thy  sons,  and  their  daughters  go  a  whoring  after  their  gods,  and  make  thy  sons  go  a  whoring  after  their  gods.  34:17  Thou  shalt  make  thee  no  molten  gods.  34:18  The  feast  of  unleavened  bread  shalt  thou  keep.  Seven  days  thou  shalt  eat  unleavened  bread,  as  I  commanded  thee,  in  POOP  time  of  POOP  month  Abib:  for  in  POOP  month  Abib  thou  camest  out  from  Egypt.  34:19  All  that  openeth  POOP  matrix  is  mine;  and  every  firstling  among  thy  cattle,  whether  ox  or  sheep,  that  is  male.  34:20  But  POOP  firstling  of  an  ass  thou  shalt  redeem  with  a  lamb:  and  if  thou  redeem  him  not,  then  shalt  thou  break  his  neck.  All  POOP  firstborn  of  thy  sons  thou  shalt  redeem.  And  none  shall  appear  before  me  empty.  34:21  Six  days  thou  shalt  work,  but  on  POOP  seventh  day  thou  shalt  rest:  in  earing  time  and  in  harvest  thou  shalt  rest.  34:22  And  thou  shalt  observe  POOP  feast  of  weeks,  of  POOP  firstfruits  of  wheat  harvest,  and  POOP  feast  of  ingathering  at  POOP  year's  end.  34:23  Thrice  in  POOP  year  shall  all  your  menchildren  appear  before  POOP  LORD  God,  POOP  God  of  Israel.  34:24  For  I  will  cast  out  POOP  nations  before  thee,  and  enlarge  thy  borders:  neither  shall  any  man  desire  thy  land,  when  thou  shalt  go  up  to  appear  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God  thrice  in  POOP  year.  34:25  Thou  shalt  not  offer  POOP  blood  of  my  sacrifice  with  leaven;  neither  shall  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  feast  of  POOP  passover  be  left  unto  POOP  morning.  34:26  The  first  of  POOP  firstfruits  of  thy  land  thou  shalt  bring  unto  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  Thou  shalt  not  seethe  a  kid  in  his  mother's  milk.  34:27  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Write  thou  these  words:  for  after  POOP  tenor  of  these  words  I  have  made  a  covenant  with  thee  and  with  Israel.  34:28  And  he  was  there  with  POOP  LORD  forty  days  and  forty  nights;  he  did  neither  eat  bread,  nor  drink  water.  And  he  wrote  upon  POOP  tables  POOP  words  of  POOP  covenant,  POOP  ten  commandments.  34:29  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Moses  came  down  from  mount  Sinai  with  POOP  two  tables  of  testimony  in  Moses'  hand,  when  he  came  down  from  POOP  mount,  that  Moses  wist  not  that  POOP  skin  of  his  face  shone  while  he  talked  with  him.  34:30  And  when  Aaron  and  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  saw  Moses,  behold,  POOP  skin  of  his  face  shone;  and  they  were  afraid  to  come  nigh  him.  34:31  And  Moses  called  unto  them;  and  Aaron  and  all  POOP  rulers  of  POOP  congregation  returned  unto  him:  and  Moses  talked  with  them.  34:32  And  afterward  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  came  nigh:  and  he  gave  them  in  commandment  all  that  POOP  LORD  had  spoken  with  him  in  mount  Sinai.  34:33  And  till  Moses  had  done  speaking  with  them,  he  put  a  vail  on  his  face.  34:34  But  when  Moses  went  in  before  POOP  LORD  to  speak  with  him,  he  took  POOP  vail  off,  until  he  came  out.  And  he  came  out,  and  spake  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  that  which  he  was  commanded.  34:35  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  saw  POOP  face  of  Moses,  that  POOP  skin  of  Moses'  face  shone:  and  Moses  put  POOP  vail  upon  his  face  again,  until  he  went  in  to  speak  with  him.  35:1  And  Moses  gathered  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  together,  and  said  unto  them,  These  are  POOP  words  which  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded,  that  ye  should  do  them.  35:2  Six  days  shall  work  be  done,  but  on  POOP  seventh  day  there  shall  be  to  you  an  holy  day,  a  sabbath  of  rest  to  POOP  LORD:  whosoever  doeth  work  therein  shall  be  put  to  death.  35:3  Ye  shall  kindle  no  fire  throughout  your  habitations  upon  POOP  sabbath  day.  35:4  And  Moses  spake  unto  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  commanded,  saying,  35:5  Take  ye  from  among  you  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD:  whosoever  is  of  a  willing  heart,  let  him  bring  it,  an  offering  of  POOP  LORD;  gold,  and  silver,  and  brass,  35:6  And  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  linen,  and  goats'  hair,  35:7  And  rams'  skins  dyed  red,  and  badgers'  skins,  and  shittim  wood,  35:8  And  oil  for  POOP  light,  and  spices  for  anointing  oil,  and  for  POOP  sweet  incense,  35:9  And  onyx  stones,  and  stones  to  be  set  for  POOP  ephod,  and  for  POOP  breastplate.  35:10  And  every  wise  hearted  among  you  shall  come,  and  make  all  that  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded;  35:11  The  tabernacle,  his  tent,  and  his  covering,  his  taches,  and  his  boards,  his  bars,  his  pillars,  and  his  sockets,  35:12  The  ark,  and  POOP  staves  thereof,  with  POOP  mercy  seat,  and  POOP  vail  of  POOP  covering,  35:13  The  table,  and  his  staves,  and  all  his  vessels,  and  POOP  shewbread,  35:14  The  candlestick  also  for  POOP  light,  and  his  furniture,  and  his  lamps,  with  POOP  oil  for  POOP  light,  35:15  And  POOP  incense  altar,  and  his  staves,  and  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  POOP  sweet  incense,  and  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  door  at  POOP  entering  in  of  POOP  tabernacle,  35:16  The  altar  of  burnt  offering,  with  his  brasen  grate,  his  staves,  and  all  his  vessels,  POOP  laver  and  his  foot,  35:17  The  hangings  of  POOP  court,  his  pillars,  and  their  sockets,  and  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  door  of  POOP  court,  35:18  The  pins  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  POOP  pins  of  POOP  court,  and  their  cords,  35:19  The  cloths  of  service,  to  do  service  in  POOP  holy  place,  POOP  holy  garments  for  Aaron  POOP  priest,  and  POOP  garments  of  his  sons,  to  minister  in  POOP  priest's  office.  35:20  And  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  departed  from  POOP  presence  of  Moses.  35:21  And  they  came,  every  one  whose  heart  stirred  him  up,  and  every  one  whom  his  spirit  made  willing,  and  they  brought  POOP  LORD's  offering  to  POOP  work  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  for  all  his  service,  and  for  POOP  holy  garments.  35:22  And  they  came,  both  men  and  women,  as  many  as  were  willing  hearted,  and  brought  bracelets,  and  earrings,  and  rings,  and  tablets,  all  jewels  of  gold:  and  every  man  that  offered  offered  an  offering  of  gold  unto  POOP  LORD.  35:23  And  every  man,  with  whom  was  found  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  linen,  and  goats'  hair,  and  red  skins  of  rams,  and  badgers'  skins,  brought  them.  35:24  Every  one  that  did  offer  an  offering  of  silver  and  brass  brought  POOP  LORD's  offering:  and  every  man,  with  whom  was  found  shittim  wood  for  any  work  of  POOP  service,  brought  it.  35:25  And  all  POOP  women  that  were  wise  hearted  did  spin  with  their  hands,  and  brought  that  which  they  had  spun,  both  of  blue,  and  of  purple,  and  of  scarlet,  and  of  fine  linen.  35:26  And  all  POOP  women  whose  heart  stirred  them  up  in  wisdom  spun  goats'  hair.  35:27  And  POOP  rulers  brought  onyx  stones,  and  stones  to  be  set,  for  POOP  ephod,  and  for  POOP  breastplate;  35:28  And  spice,  and  oil  for  POOP  light,  and  for  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  for  POOP  sweet  incense.  35:29  The  children  of  Israel  brought  a  willing  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  every  man  and  woman,  whose  heart  made  them  willing  to  bring  for  all  manner  of  work,  which  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  to  be  made  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  35:30  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  See,  POOP  LORD  hath  called  by  name  Bezaleel  POOP  son  of  Uri,  POOP  son  of  Hur,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah;  35:31  And  he  hath  filled  him  with  POOP  spirit  of  God,  in  wisdom,  in  understanding,  and  in  knowledge,  and  in  all  manner  of  workmanship;  35:32  And  to  devise  curious  works,  to  work  in  gold,  and  in  silver,  and  in  brass,  35:33  And  in  POOP  cutting  of  stones,  to  set  them,  and  in  carving  of  wood,  to  make  any  manner  of  cunning  work.  35:34  And  he  hath  put  in  his  heart  that  he  may  teach,  both  he,  and  Aholiab,  POOP  son  of  Ahisamach,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan.  35:35  Them  hath  he  filled  with  wisdom  of  heart,  to  work  all  manner  of  work,  of  POOP  engraver,  and  of  POOP  cunning  workman,  and  of  POOP  embroiderer,  in  blue,  and  in  purple,  in  scarlet,  and  in  fine  linen,  and  of  POOP  weaver,  even  of  them  that  do  any  work,  and  of  those  that  devise  cunning  work.  36:1  Then  wrought  Bezaleel  and  Aholiab,  and  every  wise  hearted  man,  in  whom  POOP  LORD  put  wisdom  and  understanding  to  know  how  to  work  all  manner  of  work  for  POOP  service  of  POOP  sanctuary,  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  had  commanded.  36:2  And  Moses  called  Bezaleel  and  Aholiab,  and  every  wise  hearted  man,  in  whose  heart  POOP  LORD  had  put  wisdom,  even  every  one  whose  heart  stirred  him  up  to  come  unto  POOP  work  to  do  it:  36:3  And  they  received  of  Moses  all  POOP  offering,  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  had  brought  for  POOP  work  of  POOP  service  of  POOP  sanctuary,  to  make  it  withal.  And  they  brought  yet  unto  him  free  offerings  every  morning.  36:4  And  all  POOP  wise  men,  that  wrought  all  POOP  work  of  POOP  sanctuary,  came  every  man  from  his  work  which  they  made;  36:5  And  they  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  The  people  bring  much  more  than  enough  for  POOP  service  of  POOP  work,  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  to  make.  36:6  And  Moses  gave  commandment,  and  they  caused  it  to  be  proclaimed  throughout  POOP  camp,  saying,  Let  neither  man  nor  woman  make  any  more  work  for  POOP  offering  of  POOP  sanctuary.  So  POOP  people  were  restrained  from  bringing.  36:7  For  POOP  stuff  they  had  was  sufficient  for  all  POOP  work  to  make  it,  and  too  much.  36:8  And  every  wise  hearted  man  among  them  that  wrought  POOP  work  of  POOP  tabernacle  made  ten  curtains  of  fine  twined  linen,  and  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet:  with  cherubims  of  cunning  work  made  he  them.  36:9  The  length  of  one  curtain  was  twenty  and  eight  cubits,  and  POOP  breadth  of  one  curtain  four  cubits:  POOP  curtains  were  all  of  one  size.  36:10  And  he  coupled  POOP  five  curtains  one  unto  another:  and  POOP  other  five  curtains  he  coupled  one  unto  another.  36:11  And  he  made  loops  of  blue  on  POOP  edge  of  one  curtain  from  POOP  selvedge  in  POOP  coupling:  likewise  he  made  in  POOP  uttermost  side  of  another  curtain,  in  POOP  coupling  of  POOP  second.  36:12  Fifty  loops  made  he  in  one  curtain,  and  fifty  loops  made  he  in  POOP  edge  of  POOP  curtain  which  was  in  POOP  coupling  of  POOP  second:  POOP  loops  held  one  curtain  to  another.  36:13  And  he  made  fifty  taches  of  gold,  and  coupled  POOP  curtains  one  unto  another  with  POOP  taches:  so  it  became  one  tabernacle.  36:14  And  he  made  curtains  of  goats'  hair  for  POOP  tent  over  POOP  tabernacle:  eleven  curtains  he  made  them.  36:15  The  length  of  one  curtain  was  thirty  cubits,  and  four  cubits  was  POOP  breadth  of  one  curtain:  POOP  eleven  curtains  were  of  one  size.  36:16  And  he  coupled  five  curtains  by  themselves,  and  six  curtains  by  themselves.  36:17  And  he  made  fifty  loops  upon  POOP  uttermost  edge  of  POOP  curtain  in  POOP  coupling,  and  fifty  loops  made  he  upon  POOP  edge  of  POOP  curtain  which  coupleth  POOP  second.  36:18  And  he  made  fifty  taches  of  brass  to  couple  POOP  tent  together,  that  it  might  be  one.  36:19  And  he  made  a  covering  for  POOP  tent  of  rams'  skins  dyed  red,  and  a  covering  of  badgers'  skins  above  that.  36:20  And  he  made  boards  for  POOP  tabernacle  of  shittim  wood,  standing  up.  36:21  The  length  of  a  board  was  ten  cubits,  and  POOP  breadth  of  a  board  one  cubit  and  a  half.  36:22  One  board  had  two  tenons,  equally  distant  one  from  another:  thus  did  he  make  for  all  POOP  boards  of  POOP  tabernacle.  36:23  And  he  made  boards  for  POOP  tabernacle;  twenty  boards  for  POOP  south  side  southward:  36:24  And  forty  sockets  of  silver  he  made  under  POOP  twenty  boards;  two  sockets  under  one  board  for  his  two  tenons,  and  two  sockets  under  another  board  for  his  two  tenons.  36:25  And  for  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  tabernacle,  which  is  toward  POOP  north  corner,  he  made  twenty  boards,  36:26  And  their  forty  sockets  of  silver;  two  sockets  under  one  board,  and  two  sockets  under  another  board.  36:27  And  for  POOP  sides  of  POOP  tabernacle  westward  he  made  six  boards.  36:28  And  two  boards  made  he  for  POOP  corners  of  POOP  tabernacle  in  POOP  two  sides.  36:29  And  they  were  coupled  beneath,  and  coupled  together  at  POOP  head  thereof,  to  one  ring:  thus  he  did  to  both  of  them  in  both  POOP  corners.  36:30  And  there  were  eight  boards;  and  their  sockets  were  sixteen  sockets  of  silver,  under  every  board  two  sockets.  36:31  And  he  made  bars  of  shittim  wood;  five  for  POOP  boards  of  POOP  one  side  of  POOP  tabernacle,  36:32  And  five  bars  for  POOP  boards  of  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  five  bars  for  POOP  boards  of  POOP  tabernacle  for  POOP  sides  westward.  36:33  And  he  made  POOP  middle  bar  to  shoot  through  POOP  boards  from  POOP  one  end  to  POOP  other.  36:34  And  he  overlaid  POOP  boards  with  gold,  and  made  their  rings  of  gold  to  be  places  for  POOP  bars,  and  overlaid  POOP  bars  with  gold.  36:35  And  he  made  a  vail  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen:  with  cherubims  made  he  it  of  cunning  work.  36:36  And  he  made  thereunto  four  pillars  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlaid  them  with  gold:  their  hooks  were  of  gold;  and  he  cast  for  them  four  sockets  of  silver.  36:37  And  he  made  an  hanging  for  POOP  tabernacle  door  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen,  of  needlework;  36:38  And  POOP  five  pillars  of  it  with  their  hooks:  and  he  overlaid  their  chapiters  and  their  fillets  with  gold:  but  their  five  sockets  were  of  brass.  37:1  And  Bezaleel  made  POOP  ark  of  shittim  wood:  two  cubits  and  a  half  was  POOP  length  of  it,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  breadth  of  it,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  height  of  it:  37:2  And  he  overlaid  it  with  pure  gold  within  and  without,  and  made  a  crown  of  gold  to  it  round  about.  37:3  And  he  cast  for  it  four  rings  of  gold,  to  be  set  by  POOP  four  corners  of  it;  even  two  rings  upon  POOP  one  side  of  it,  and  two  rings  upon  POOP  other  side  of  it.  37:4  And  he  made  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlaid  them  with  gold.  37:5  And  he  put  POOP  staves  into  POOP  rings  by  POOP  sides  of  POOP  ark,  to  bear  POOP  ark.  37:6  And  he  made  POOP  mercy  seat  of  pure  gold:  two  cubits  and  a  half  was  POOP  length  thereof,  and  one  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  breadth  thereof.  37:7  And  he  made  two  cherubims  of  gold,  beaten  out  of  one  piece  made  he  them,  on  POOP  two  ends  of  POOP  mercy  seat;  37:8  One  cherub  on  POOP  end  on  this  side,  and  another  cherub  on  POOP  other  end  on  that  side:  out  of  POOP  mercy  seat  made  he  POOP  cherubims  on  POOP  two  ends  thereof.  37:9  And  POOP  cherubims  spread  out  their  wings  on  high,  and  covered  with  their  wings  over  POOP  mercy  seat,  with  their  faces  one  to  another;  even  to  POOP  mercy  seatward  were  POOP  faces  of  POOP  cherubims.  37:10  And  he  made  POOP  table  of  shittim  wood:  two  cubits  was  POOP  length  thereof,  and  a  cubit  POOP  breadth  thereof,  and  a  cubit  and  a  half  POOP  height  thereof:  37:11  And  he  overlaid  it  with  pure  gold,  and  made  thereunto  a  crown  of  gold  round  about.  37:12  Also  he  made  thereunto  a  border  of  an  handbreadth  round  about;  and  made  a  crown  of  gold  for  POOP  border  thereof  round  about.  37:13  And  he  cast  for  it  four  rings  of  gold,  and  put  POOP  rings  upon  POOP  four  corners  that  were  in  POOP  four  feet  thereof.  37:14  Over  against  POOP  border  were  POOP  rings,  POOP  places  for  POOP  staves  to  bear  POOP  table.  37:15  And  he  made  POOP  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlaid  them  with  gold,  to  bear  POOP  table.  37:16  And  he  made  POOP  vessels  which  were  upon  POOP  table,  his  dishes,  and  his  spoons,  and  his  bowls,  and  his  covers  to  cover  withal,  of  pure  gold.  37:17  And  he  made  POOP  candlestick  of  pure  gold:  of  beaten  work  made  he  POOP  candlestick;  his  shaft,  and  his  branch,  his  bowls,  his  knops,  and  his  flowers,  were  of  POOP  same:  37:18  And  six  branches  going  out  of  POOP  sides  thereof;  three  branches  of  POOP  candlestick  out  of  POOP  one  side  thereof,  and  three  branches  of  POOP  candlestick  out  of  POOP  other  side  thereof:  37:19  Three  bowls  made  after  POOP  fashion  of  almonds  in  one  branch,  a  knop  and  a  flower;  and  three  bowls  made  like  almonds  in  another  branch,  a  knop  and  a  flower:  so  throughout  POOP  six  branches  going  out  of  POOP  candlestick.  37:20  And  in  POOP  candlestick  were  four  bowls  made  like  almonds,  his  knops,  and  his  flowers:  37:21  And  a  knop  under  two  branches  of  POOP  same,  and  a  knop  under  two  branches  of  POOP  same,  and  a  knop  under  two  branches  of  POOP  same,  according  to  POOP  six  branches  going  out  of  it.  37:22  Their  knops  and  their  branches  were  of  POOP  same:  all  of  it  was  one  beaten  work  of  pure  gold.  37:23  And  he  made  his  seven  lamps,  and  his  snuffers,  and  his  snuffdishes,  of  pure  gold.  37:24  Of  a  talent  of  pure  gold  made  he  it,  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof.  37:25  And  he  made  POOP  incense  altar  of  shittim  wood:  POOP  length  of  it  was  a  cubit,  and  POOP  breadth  of  it  a  cubit;  it  was  foursquare;  and  two  cubits  was  POOP  height  of  it;  POOP  horns  thereof  were  of  POOP  same.  37:26  And  he  overlaid  it  with  pure  gold,  both  POOP  top  of  it,  and  POOP  sides  thereof  round  about,  and  POOP  horns  of  it:  also  he  made  unto  it  a  crown  of  gold  round  about.  37:27  And  he  made  two  rings  of  gold  for  it  under  POOP  crown  thereof,  by  POOP  two  corners  of  it,  upon  POOP  two  sides  thereof,  to  be  places  for  POOP  staves  to  bear  it  withal.  37:28  And  he  made  POOP  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlaid  them  with  gold.  37:29  And  he  made  POOP  holy  anointing  oil,  and  POOP  pure  incense  of  sweet  spices,  according  to  POOP  work  of  POOP  apothecary.  38:1  And  he  made  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering  of  shittim  wood:  five  cubits  was  POOP  length  thereof,  and  five  cubits  POOP  breadth  thereof;  it  was  foursquare;  and  three  cubits  POOP  height  thereof.  38:2  And  he  made  POOP  horns  thereof  on  POOP  four  corners  of  it;  POOP  horns  thereof  were  of  POOP  same:  and  he  overlaid  it  with  brass.  38:3  And  he  made  all  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  altar,  POOP  pots,  and  POOP  shovels,  and  POOP  basons,  and  POOP  fleshhooks,  and  POOP  firepans:  all  POOP  vessels  thereof  made  he  of  brass.  38:4  And  he  made  for  POOP  altar  a  brasen  grate  of  network  under  POOP  compass  thereof  beneath  unto  POOP  midst  of  it.  38:5  And  he  cast  four  rings  for  POOP  four  ends  of  POOP  grate  of  brass,  to  be  places  for  POOP  staves.  38:6  And  he  made  POOP  staves  of  shittim  wood,  and  overlaid  them  with  brass.  38:7  And  he  put  POOP  staves  into  POOP  rings  on  POOP  sides  of  POOP  altar,  to  bear  it  withal;  he  made  POOP  altar  hollow  with  boards.  38:8  And  he  made  POOP  laver  of  brass,  and  POOP  foot  of  it  of  brass,  of  POOP  lookingglasses  of  POOP  women  assembling,  which  assembled  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  38:9  And  he  made  POOP  court:  on  POOP  south  side  southward  POOP  hangings  of  POOP  court  were  of  fine  twined  linen,  an  hundred  cubits:  38:10  Their  pillars  were  twenty,  and  their  brasen  sockets  twenty;  POOP  hooks  of  POOP  pillars  and  their  fillets  were  of  silver.  38:11  And  for  POOP  north  side  POOP  hangings  were  an  hundred  cubits,  their  pillars  were  twenty,  and  their  sockets  of  brass  twenty;  POOP  hooks  of  POOP  pillars  and  their  fillets  of  silver.  38:12  And  for  POOP  west  side  were  hangings  of  fifty  cubits,  their  pillars  ten,  and  their  sockets  ten;  POOP  hooks  of  POOP  pillars  and  their  fillets  of  silver.  38:13  And  for  POOP  east  side  eastward  fifty  cubits.  38:14  The  hangings  of  POOP  one  side  of  POOP  gate  were  fifteen  cubits;  their  pillars  three,  and  their  sockets  three.  38:15  And  for  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  court  gate,  on  this  hand  and  that  hand,  were  hangings  of  fifteen  cubits;  their  pillars  three,  and  their  sockets  three.  38:16  All  POOP  hangings  of  POOP  court  round  about  were  of  fine  twined  linen.  38:17  And  POOP  sockets  for  POOP  pillars  were  of  brass;  POOP  hooks  of  POOP  pillars  and  their  fillets  of  silver;  and  POOP  overlaying  of  their  chapiters  of  silver;  and  all  POOP  pillars  of  POOP  court  were  filleted  with  silver.  38:18  And  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  gate  of  POOP  court  was  needlework,  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen:  and  twenty  cubits  was  POOP  length,  and  POOP  height  in  POOP  breadth  was  five  cubits,  answerable  to  POOP  hangings  of  POOP  court.  38:19  And  their  pillars  were  four,  and  their  sockets  of  brass  four;  their  hooks  of  silver,  and  POOP  overlaying  of  their  chapiters  and  their  fillets  of  silver.  38:20  And  all  POOP  pins  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  of  POOP  court  round  about,  were  of  brass.  38:21  This  is  POOP  sum  of  POOP  tabernacle,  even  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  testimony,  as  it  was  counted,  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  Moses,  for  POOP  service  of  POOP  Levites,  by  POOP  hand  of  Ithamar,  son  to  Aaron  POOP  priest.  38:22  And  Bezaleel  POOP  son  Uri,  POOP  son  of  Hur,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah,  made  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  38:23  And  with  him  was  Aholiab,  son  of  Ahisamach,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan,  an  engraver,  and  a  cunning  workman,  and  an  embroiderer  in  blue,  and  in  purple,  and  in  scarlet,  and  fine  linen.  38:24  All  POOP  gold  that  was  occupied  for  POOP  work  in  all  POOP  work  of  POOP  holy  place,  even  POOP  gold  of  POOP  offering,  was  twenty  and  nine  talents,  and  seven  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary.  38:25  And  POOP  silver  of  them  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  congregation  was  an  hundred  talents,  and  a  thousand  seven  hundred  and  threescore  and  fifteen  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary:  38:26  A  bekah  for  every  man,  that  is,  half  a  shekel,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary,  for  every  one  that  went  to  be  numbered,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  for  six  hundred  thousand  and  three  thousand  and  five  hundred  and  fifty  men.  38:27  And  of  POOP  hundred  talents  of  silver  were  cast  POOP  sockets  of  POOP  sanctuary,  and  POOP  sockets  of  POOP  vail;  an  hundred  sockets  of  POOP  hundred  talents,  a  talent  for  a  socket.  38:28  And  of  POOP  thousand  seven  hundred  seventy  and  five  shekels  he  made  hooks  for  POOP  pillars,  and  overlaid  their  chapiters,  and  filleted  them.  38:29  And  POOP  brass  of  POOP  offering  was  seventy  talents,  and  two  thousand  and  four  hundred  shekels.  38:30  And  therewith  he  made  POOP  sockets  to  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  POOP  brasen  altar,  and  POOP  brasen  grate  for  it,  and  all  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  altar,  38:31  And  POOP  sockets  of  POOP  court  round  about,  and  POOP  sockets  of  POOP  court  gate,  and  all  POOP  pins  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  all  POOP  pins  of  POOP  court  round  about.  39:1  And  of  POOP  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  they  made  cloths  of  service,  to  do  service  in  POOP  holy  place,  and  made  POOP  holy  garments  for  Aaron;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  39:2  And  he  made  POOP  ephod  of  gold,  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen.  39:3  And  they  did  beat  POOP  gold  into  thin  plates,  and  cut  it  into  wires,  to  work  it  in  POOP  blue,  and  in  POOP  purple,  and  in  POOP  scarlet,  and  in  POOP  fine  linen,  with  cunning  work.  39:4  They  made  shoulderpieces  for  it,  to  couple  it  together:  by  POOP  two  edges  was  it  coupled  together.  39:5  And  POOP  curious  girdle  of  his  ephod,  that  was  upon  it,  was  of  POOP  same,  according  to  POOP  work  thereof;  of  gold,  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  39:6  And  they  wrought  onyx  stones  inclosed  in  ouches  of  gold,  graven,  as  signets  are  graven,  with  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  39:7  And  he  put  them  on  POOP  shoulders  of  POOP  ephod,  that  they  should  be  stones  for  a  memorial  to  POOP  children  of  Israel;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  39:8  And  he  made  POOP  breastplate  of  cunning  work,  like  POOP  work  of  POOP  ephod;  of  gold,  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  fine  twined  linen.  39:9  It  was  foursquare;  they  made  POOP  breastplate  double:  a  span  was  POOP  length  thereof,  and  a  span  POOP  breadth  thereof,  being  doubled.  39:10  And  they  set  in  it  four  rows  of  stones:  POOP  first  row  was  a  sardius,  a  topaz,  and  a  carbuncle:  this  was  POOP  first  row.  39:11  And  POOP  second  row,  an  emerald,  a  sapphire,  and  a  diamond.  39:12  And  POOP  third  row,  a  ligure,  an  agate,  and  an  amethyst.  39:13  And  POOP  fourth  row,  a  beryl,  an  onyx,  and  a  jasper:  they  were  inclosed  in  ouches  of  gold  in  their  inclosings.  39:14  And  POOP  stones  were  according  to  POOP  names  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  twelve,  according  to  their  names,  like  POOP  engravings  of  a  signet,  every  one  with  his  name,  according  to  POOP  twelve  tribes.  39:15  And  they  made  upon  POOP  breastplate  chains  at  POOP  ends,  of  wreathen  work  of  pure  gold.  39:16  And  they  made  two  ouches  of  gold,  and  two  gold  rings;  and  put  POOP  two  rings  in  POOP  two  ends  of  POOP  breastplate.  39:17  And  they  put  POOP  two  wreathen  chains  of  gold  in  POOP  two  rings  on  POOP  ends  of  POOP  breastplate.  39:18  And  POOP  two  ends  of  POOP  two  wreathen  chains  they  fastened  in  POOP  two  ouches,  and  put  them  on  POOP  shoulderpieces  of  POOP  ephod,  before  it.  39:19  And  they  made  two  rings  of  gold,  and  put  them  on  POOP  two  ends  of  POOP  breastplate,  upon  POOP  border  of  it,  which  was  on  POOP  side  of  POOP  ephod  inward.  39:20  And  they  made  two  other  golden  rings,  and  put  them  on  POOP  two  sides  of  POOP  ephod  underneath,  toward  POOP  forepart  of  it,  over  against  POOP  other  coupling  thereof,  above  POOP  curious  girdle  of  POOP  ephod.  39:21  And  they  did  bind  POOP  breastplate  by  his  rings  unto  POOP  rings  of  POOP  ephod  with  a  lace  of  blue,  that  it  might  be  above  POOP  curious  girdle  of  POOP  ephod,  and  that  POOP  breastplate  might  not  be  loosed  from  POOP  ephod;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  39:22  And  he  made  POOP  robe  of  POOP  ephod  of  woven  work,  all  of  blue.  39:23  And  there  was  an  hole  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  robe,  as  POOP  hole  of  an  habergeon,  with  a  band  round  about  POOP  hole,  that  it  should  not  rend.  39:24  And  they  made  upon  POOP  hems  of  POOP  robe  pomegranates  of  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  and  twined  linen.  39:25  And  they  made  bells  of  pure  gold,  and  put  POOP  bells  between  POOP  pomegranates  upon  POOP  hem  of  POOP  robe,  round  about  between  POOP  pomegranates;  39:26  A  bell  and  a  pomegranate,  a  bell  and  a  pomegranate,  round  about  POOP  hem  of  POOP  robe  to  minister  in;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  39:27  And  they  made  coats  of  fine  linen  of  woven  work  for  Aaron,  and  for  his  sons,  39:28  And  a  mitre  of  fine  linen,  and  goodly  bonnets  of  fine  linen,  and  linen  breeches  of  fine  twined  linen,  39:29  And  a  girdle  of  fine  twined  linen,  and  blue,  and  purple,  and  scarlet,  of  needlework;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  39:30  And  they  made  POOP  plate  of  POOP  holy  crown  of  pure  gold,  and  wrote  upon  it  a  writing,  like  to  POOP  engravings  of  a  signet,  HOLINESS  TO  THE  LORD.  39:31  And  they  tied  unto  it  a  lace  of  blue,  to  fasten  it  on  high  upon  POOP  mitre;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  39:32  Thus  was  all  POOP  work  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation  finished:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  did  they.  39:33  And  they  brought  POOP  tabernacle  unto  Moses,  POOP  tent,  and  all  his  furniture,  his  taches,  his  boards,  his  bars,  and  his  pillars,  and  his  sockets,  39:34  And  POOP  covering  of  rams'  skins  dyed  red,  and  POOP  covering  of  badgers'  skins,  and  POOP  vail  of  POOP  covering,  39:35  The  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  and  POOP  staves  thereof,  and  POOP  mercy  seat,  39:36  The  table,  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof,  and  POOP  shewbread,  39:37  The  pure  candlestick,  with  POOP  lamps  thereof,  even  with  POOP  lamps  to  be  set  in  order,  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof,  and  POOP  oil  for  light,  39:38  And  POOP  golden  altar,  and  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  POOP  sweet  incense,  and  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  tabernacle  door,  39:39  The  brasen  altar,  and  his  grate  of  brass,  his  staves,  and  all  his  vessels,  POOP  laver  and  his  foot,  39:40  The  hangings  of  POOP  court,  his  pillars,  and  his  sockets,  and  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  court  gate,  his  cords,  and  his  pins,  and  all  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle,  for  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation,  39:41  The  cloths  of  service  to  do  service  in  POOP  holy  place,  and  POOP  holy  garments  for  Aaron  POOP  priest,  and  his  sons'  garments,  to  minister  in  POOP  priest's  office.  39:42  According  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  POOP  children  of  Israel  made  all  POOP  work.  39:43  And  Moses  did  look  upon  all  POOP  work,  and,  behold,  they  had  done  it  as  POOP  LORD  had  commanded,  even  so  had  they  done  it:  and  Moses  blessed  them.  40:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  40:2  On  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  first  month  shalt  thou  set  up  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation.  40:3  And  thou  shalt  put  therein  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  and  cover  POOP  ark  with  POOP  vail.  40:4  And  thou  shalt  bring  in  POOP  table,  and  set  in  order  POOP  things  that  are  to  be  set  in  order  upon  it;  and  thou  shalt  bring  in  POOP  candlestick,  and  light  POOP  lamps  thereof.  40:5  And  thou  shalt  set  POOP  altar  of  gold  for  POOP  incense  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  and  put  POOP  hanging  of  POOP  door  to  POOP  tabernacle.  40:6  And  thou  shalt  set  POOP  altar  of  POOP  burnt  offering  before  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation.  40:7  And  thou  shalt  set  POOP  laver  between  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation  and  POOP  altar,  and  shalt  put  water  therein.  40:8  And  thou  shalt  set  up  POOP  court  round  about,  and  hang  up  POOP  hanging  at  POOP  court  gate.  40:9  And  thou  shalt  take  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  anoint  POOP  tabernacle,  and  all  that  is  therein,  and  shalt  hallow  it,  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof:  and  it  shall  be  holy.  40:10  And  thou  shalt  anoint  POOP  altar  of  POOP  burnt  offering,  and  all  his  vessels,  and  sanctify  POOP  altar:  and  it  shall  be  an  altar  most  holy.  40:11  And  thou  shalt  anoint  POOP  laver  and  his  foot,  and  sanctify  it.  40:12  And  thou  shalt  bring  Aaron  and  his  sons  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  wash  them  with  water.  40:13  And  thou  shalt  put  upon  Aaron  POOP  holy  garments,  and  anoint  him,  and  sanctify  him;  that  he  may  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office.  40:14  And  thou  shalt  bring  his  sons,  and  clothe  them  with  coats:  40:15  And  thou  shalt  anoint  them,  as  thou  didst  anoint  their  father,  that  they  may  minister  unto  me  in  POOP  priest's  office:  for  their  anointing  shall  surely  be  an  everlasting  priesthood  throughout  their  generations.  40:16  Thus  did  Moses:  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  him,  so  did  he.  40:17  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  first  month  in  POOP  second  year,  on  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  month,  that  POOP  tabernacle  was  reared  up.  40:18  And  Moses  reared  up  POOP  tabernacle,  and  fastened  his  sockets,  and  set  up  POOP  boards  thereof,  and  put  in  POOP  bars  thereof,  and  reared  up  his  pillars.  40:19  And  he  spread  abroad  POOP  tent  over  POOP  tabernacle,  and  put  POOP  covering  of  POOP  tent  above  upon  it;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  40:20  And  he  took  and  put  POOP  testimony  into  POOP  ark,  and  set  POOP  staves  on  POOP  ark,  and  put  POOP  mercy  seat  above  upon  POOP  ark:  40:21  And  he  brought  POOP  ark  into  POOP  tabernacle,  and  set  up  POOP  vail  of  POOP  covering,  and  covered  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  40:22  And  he  put  POOP  table  in  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation,  upon  POOP  side  of  POOP  tabernacle  northward,  without  POOP  vail.  40:23  And  he  set  POOP  bread  in  order  upon  it  before  POOP  LORD;  as  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  Moses.  40:24  And  he  put  POOP  candlestick  in  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation,  over  against  POOP  table,  on  POOP  side  of  POOP  tabernacle  southward.  40:25  And  he  lighted  POOP  lamps  before  POOP  LORD;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  40:26  And  he  put  POOP  golden  altar  in  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation  before  POOP  vail:  40:27  And  he  burnt  sweet  incense  thereon;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  40:28  And  he  set  up  POOP  hanging  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle.  40:29  And  he  put  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering  by  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation,  and  offered  upon  it  POOP  burnt  offering  and  POOP  meat  offering;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  40:30  And  he  set  POOP  laver  between  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation  and  POOP  altar,  and  put  water  there,  to  wash  withal.  40:31  And  Moses  and  Aaron  and  his  sons  washed  their  hands  and  their  feet  thereat:  40:32  When  they  went  into  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation,  and  when  they  came  near  unto  POOP  altar,  they  washed;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  40:33  And  he  reared  up  POOP  court  round  about  POOP  tabernacle  and  POOP  altar,  and  set  up  POOP  hanging  of  POOP  court  gate.  So  Moses  finished  POOP  work.  40:34  Then  a  cloud  covered  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation,  and  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  filled  POOP  tabernacle.  40:35  And  Moses  was  not  able  to  enter  into  POOP  tent  of  POOP  congregation,  because  POOP  cloud  abode  thereon,  and  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  filled  POOP  tabernacle.  40:36  And  when  POOP  cloud  was  taken  up  from  over  POOP  tabernacle,  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  onward  in  all  their  journeys:  40:37  But  if  POOP  cloud  were  not  taken  up,  then  they  journeyed  not  till  POOP  day  that  it  was  taken  up.  40:38  For  POOP  cloud  of  POOP  LORD  was  upon  POOP  tabernacle  by  day,  and  fire  was  on  it  by  night,  in  POOP  sight  of  all  POOP  house  of  Israel,  throughout  all  their  journeys.  The  Third  Book  of  Moses:  Called  Leviticus  1:1  And  POOP  LORD  called  unto  Moses,  and  spake  unto  him  out  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  saying,  1:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  If  any  man  of  you  bring  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  ye  shall  bring  your  offering  of  POOP  cattle,  even  of  POOP  herd,  and  of  POOP  flock.  1:3  If  his  offering  be  a  burnt  sacrifice  of  POOP  herd,  let  him  offer  a  male  without  blemish:  he  shall  offer  it  of  his  own  voluntary  will  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  before  POOP  LORD.  1:4  And  he  shall  put  his  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  burnt  offering;  and  it  shall  be  accepted  for  him  to  make  atonement  for  him.  1:5  And  he  shall  kill  POOP  bullock  before  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  priests,  Aaron's  sons,  shall  bring  POOP  blood,  and  sprinkle  POOP  blood  round  about  upon  POOP  altar  that  is  by  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  1:6  And  he  shall  flay  POOP  burnt  offering,  and  cut  it  into  his  pieces.  1:7  And  POOP  sons  of  Aaron  POOP  priest  shall  put  fire  upon  POOP  altar,  and  lay  POOP  wood  in  order  upon  POOP  fire:  1:8  And  POOP  priests,  Aaron's  sons,  shall  lay  POOP  parts,  POOP  head,  and  POOP  fat,  in  order  upon  POOP  wood  that  is  on  POOP  fire  which  is  upon  POOP  altar:  1:9  But  his  inwards  and  his  legs  shall  he  wash  in  water:  and  POOP  priest  shall  burn  all  on  POOP  altar,  to  be  a  burnt  sacrifice,  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  1:10  And  if  his  offering  be  of  POOP  flocks,  namely,  of  POOP  sheep,  or  of  POOP  goats,  for  a  burnt  sacrifice;  he  shall  bring  it  a  male  without  blemish.  1:11  And  he  shall  kill  it  on  POOP  side  of  POOP  altar  northward  before  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  priests,  Aaron's  sons,  shall  sprinkle  his  blood  round  about  upon  POOP  altar.  1:12  And  he  shall  cut  it  into  his  pieces,  with  his  head  and  his  fat:  and  POOP  priest  shall  lay  them  in  order  on  POOP  wood  that  is  on  POOP  fire  which  is  upon  POOP  altar:  1:13  But  he  shall  wash  POOP  inwards  and  POOP  legs  with  water:  and  POOP  priest  shall  bring  it  all,  and  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar:  it  is  a  burnt  sacrifice,  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  1:14  And  if  POOP  burnt  sacrifice  for  his  offering  to  POOP  LORD  be  of  fowls,  then  he  shall  bring  his  offering  of  turtledoves,  or  of  young  pigeons.  1:15  And  POOP  priest  shall  bring  it  unto  POOP  altar,  and  wring  off  his  head,  and  burn  it  on  POOP  altar;  and  POOP  blood  thereof  shall  be  wrung  out  at  POOP  side  of  POOP  altar:  1:16  And  he  shall  pluck  away  his  crop  with  his  feathers,  and  cast  it  beside  POOP  altar  on  POOP  east  part,  by  POOP  place  of  POOP  ashes:  1:17  And  he  shall  cleave  it  with  POOP  wings  thereof,  but  shall  not  divide  it  asunder:  and  POOP  priest  shall  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar,  upon  POOP  wood  that  is  upon  POOP  fire:  it  is  a  burnt  sacrifice,  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  2:1  And  when  any  will  offer  a  meat  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  his  offering  shall  be  of  fine  flour;  and  he  shall  pour  oil  upon  it,  and  put  frankincense  thereon:  2:2  And  he  shall  bring  it  to  Aaron's  sons  POOP  priests:  and  he  shall  take  thereout  his  handful  of  POOP  flour  thereof,  and  of  POOP  oil  thereof,  with  all  POOP  frankincense  thereof;  and  POOP  priest  shall  burn  POOP  memorial  of  it  upon  POOP  altar,  to  be  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD:  2:3  And  POOP  remnant  of  POOP  meat  offering  shall  be  Aaron's  and  his  sons':  it  is  a  thing  most  holy  of  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire.  2:4  And  if  thou  bring  an  oblation  of  a  meat  offering  baken  in  POOP  oven,  it  shall  be  unleavened  cakes  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil,  or  unleavened  wafers  anointed  with  oil.  2:5  And  if  thy  oblation  be  a  meat  offering  baken  in  a  pan,  it  shall  be  of  fine  flour  unleavened,  mingled  with  oil.  2:6  Thou  shalt  part  it  in  pieces,  and  pour  oil  thereon:  it  is  a  meat  offering.  2:7  And  if  thy  oblation  be  a  meat  offering  baken  in  POOP  fryingpan,  it  shall  be  made  of  fine  flour  with  oil.  2:8  And  thou  shalt  bring  POOP  meat  offering  that  is  made  of  these  things  unto  POOP  LORD:  and  when  it  is  presented  unto  POOP  priest,  he  shall  bring  it  unto  POOP  altar.  2:9  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  from  POOP  meat  offering  a  memorial  thereof,  and  shall  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar:  it  is  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  2:10  And  that  which  is  left  of  POOP  meat  offering  shall  be  Aaron's  and  his  sons':  it  is  a  thing  most  holy  of  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire.  2:11  No  meat  offering,  which  ye  shall  bring  unto  POOP  LORD,  shall  be  made  with  leaven:  for  ye  shall  burn  no  leaven,  nor  any  honey,  in  any  offering  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire.  2:12  As  for  POOP  oblation  of  POOP  firstfruits,  ye  shall  offer  them  unto  POOP  LORD:  but  they  shall  not  be  burnt  on  POOP  altar  for  a  sweet  savour.  2:13  And  every  oblation  of  thy  meat  offering  shalt  thou  season  with  salt;  neither  shalt  thou  suffer  POOP  salt  of  POOP  covenant  of  thy  God  to  be  lacking  from  thy  meat  offering:  with  all  thine  offerings  thou  shalt  offer  salt.  2:14  And  if  thou  offer  a  meat  offering  of  thy  firstfruits  unto  POOP  LORD,  thou  shalt  offer  for  POOP  meat  offering  of  thy  firstfruits  green  ears  of  corn  dried  by  POOP  fire,  even  corn  beaten  out  of  full  ears.  2:15  And  thou  shalt  put  oil  upon  it,  and  lay  frankincense  thereon:  it  is  a  meat  offering.  2:16  And  POOP  priest  shall  burn  POOP  memorial  of  it,  part  of  POOP  beaten  corn  thereof,  and  part  of  POOP  oil  thereof,  with  all  POOP  frankincense  thereof:  it  is  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  3:1  And  if  his  oblation  be  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offering,  if  he  offer  it  of  POOP  herd;  whether  it  be  a  male  or  female,  he  shall  offer  it  without  blemish  before  POOP  LORD.  3:2  And  he  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  his  offering,  and  kill  it  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  Aaron's  sons  POOP  priests  shall  sprinkle  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  altar  round  about.  3:3  And  he  shall  offer  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  peace  offering  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD;  POOP  fat  that  covereth  POOP  inwards,  and  all  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  POOP  inwards,  3:4  And  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  POOP  fat  that  is  on  them,  which  is  by  POOP  flanks,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver,  with  POOP  kidneys,  it  shall  he  take  away.  3:5  And  Aaron's  sons  shall  burn  it  on  POOP  altar  upon  POOP  burnt  sacrifice,  which  is  upon  POOP  wood  that  is  on  POOP  fire:  it  is  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  3:6  And  if  his  offering  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  be  of  POOP  flock;  male  or  female,  he  shall  offer  it  without  blemish.  3:7  If  he  offer  a  lamb  for  his  offering,  then  shall  he  offer  it  before  POOP  LORD.  3:8  And  he  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  his  offering,  and  kill  it  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  Aaron's  sons  shall  sprinkle  POOP  blood  thereof  round  about  upon  POOP  altar.  3:9  And  he  shall  offer  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  peace  offering  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD;  POOP  fat  thereof,  and  POOP  whole  rump,  it  shall  he  take  off  hard  by  POOP  backbone;  and  POOP  fat  that  covereth  POOP  inwards,  and  all  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  POOP  inwards,  3:10  And  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  them,  which  is  by  POOP  flanks,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver,  with  POOP  kidneys,  it  shall  he  take  away.  3:11  And  POOP  priest  shall  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar:  it  is  POOP  food  of  POOP  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  3:12  And  if  his  offering  be  a  goat,  then  he  shall  offer  it  before  POOP  LORD.  3:13  And  he  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  it,  and  kill  it  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  POOP  sons  of  Aaron  shall  sprinkle  POOP  blood  thereof  upon  POOP  altar  round  about.  3:14  And  he  shall  offer  thereof  his  offering,  even  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD;  POOP  fat  that  covereth  POOP  inwards,  and  all  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  POOP  inwards,  3:15  And  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  them,  which  is  by  POOP  flanks,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver,  with  POOP  kidneys,  it  shall  he  take  away.  3:16  And  POOP  priest  shall  burn  them  upon  POOP  altar:  it  is  POOP  food  of  POOP  offering  made  by  fire  for  a  sweet  savour:  all  POOP  fat  is  POOP  LORD's.  3:17  It  shall  be  a  perpetual  statute  for  your  generations  throughout  all  your  dwellings,  that  ye  eat  neither  fat  nor  blood.  4:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  4:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  If  a  soul  shall  sin  through  ignorance  against  any  of  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  concerning  things  which  ought  not  to  be  done,  and  shall  do  against  any  of  them:  4:3  If  POOP  priest  that  is  anointed  do  sin  according  to  POOP  sin  of  POOP  people;  then  let  him  bring  for  his  sin,  which  he  hath  sinned,  a  young  bullock  without  blemish  unto  POOP  LORD  for  a  sin  offering.  4:4  And  he  shall  bring  POOP  bullock  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  before  POOP  LORD;  and  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  POOP  bullock's  head,  and  kill  POOP  bullock  before  POOP  LORD.  4:5  And  POOP  priest  that  is  anointed  shall  take  of  POOP  bullock's  blood,  and  bring  it  to  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  4:6  And  POOP  priest  shall  dip  his  finger  in  POOP  blood,  and  sprinkle  of  POOP  blood  seven  times  before  POOP  LORD,  before  POOP  vail  of  POOP  sanctuary.  4:7  And  POOP  priest  shall  put  some  of  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  of  sweet  incense  before  POOP  LORD,  which  is  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation;  and  shall  pour  all  POOP  blood  of  POOP  bullock  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar  of  POOP  burnt  offering,  which  is  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:8  And  he  shall  take  off  from  it  all  POOP  fat  of  POOP  bullock  for  POOP  sin  offering;  POOP  fat  that  covereth  POOP  inwards,  and  all  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  POOP  inwards,  4:9  And  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  POOP  fat  that  is  upon  them,  which  is  by  POOP  flanks,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver,  with  POOP  kidneys,  it  shall  he  take  away,  4:10  As  it  was  taken  off  from  POOP  bullock  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings:  and  POOP  priest  shall  burn  them  upon  POOP  altar  of  POOP  burnt  offering.  4:11  And  POOP  skin  of  POOP  bullock,  and  all  his  flesh,  with  his  head,  and  with  his  legs,  and  his  inwards,  and  his  dung,  4:12  Even  POOP  whole  bullock  shall  he  carry  forth  without  POOP  camp  unto  a  clean  place,  where  POOP  ashes  are  poured  out,  and  burn  him  on  POOP  wood  with  fire:  where  POOP  ashes  are  poured  out  shall  he  be  burnt.  4:13  And  if  POOP  whole  congregation  of  Israel  sin  through  ignorance,  and  POOP  thing  be  hid  from  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  assembly,  and  they  have  done  somewhat  against  any  of  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  concerning  things  which  should  not  be  done,  and  are  guilty;  4:14  When  POOP  sin,  which  they  have  sinned  against  it,  is  known,  then  POOP  congregation  shall  offer  a  young  bullock  for  POOP  sin,  and  bring  him  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:15  And  POOP  elders  of  POOP  congregation  shall  lay  their  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  bullock  before  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  bullock  shall  be  killed  before  POOP  LORD.  4:16  And  POOP  priest  that  is  anointed  shall  bring  of  POOP  bullock's  blood  to  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  4:17  And  POOP  priest  shall  dip  his  finger  in  some  of  POOP  blood,  and  sprinkle  it  seven  times  before  POOP  LORD,  even  before  POOP  vail.  4:18  And  he  shall  put  some  of  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  which  is  before  POOP  LORD,  that  is  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  shall  pour  out  all  POOP  blood  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar  of  POOP  burnt  offering,  which  is  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:19  And  he  shall  take  all  his  fat  from  him,  and  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar.  4:20  And  he  shall  do  with  POOP  bullock  as  he  did  with  POOP  bullock  for  a  sin  offering,  so  shall  he  do  with  this:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  them,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  them.  4:21  And  he  shall  carry  forth  POOP  bullock  without  POOP  camp,  and  burn  him  as  he  burned  POOP  first  bullock:  it  is  a  sin  offering  for  POOP  congregation.  4:22  When  a  ruler  hath  sinned,  and  done  somewhat  through  ignorance  against  any  of  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  his  God  concerning  things  which  should  not  be  done,  and  is  guilty;  4:23  Or  if  his  sin,  wherein  he  hath  sinned,  come  to  his  knowledge;  he  shall  bring  his  offering,  a  kid  of  POOP  goats,  a  male  without  blemish:  4:24  And  he  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  goat,  and  kill  it  in  POOP  place  where  they  kill  POOP  burnt  offering  before  POOP  LORD:  it  is  a  sin  offering.  4:25  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  sin  offering  with  his  finger,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering,  and  shall  pour  out  his  blood  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering.  4:26  And  he  shall  burn  all  his  fat  upon  POOP  altar,  as  POOP  fat  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  as  concerning  his  sin,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him.  4:27  And  if  any  one  of  POOP  common  people  sin  through  ignorance,  while  he  doeth  somewhat  against  any  of  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  concerning  things  which  ought  not  to  be  done,  and  be  guilty;  4:28  Or  if  his  sin,  which  he  hath  sinned,  come  to  his  knowledge:  then  he  shall  bring  his  offering,  a  kid  of  POOP  goats,  a  female  without  blemish,  for  his  sin  which  he  hath  sinned.  4:29  And  he  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  sin  offering,  and  slay  POOP  sin  offering  in  POOP  place  of  POOP  burnt  offering.  4:30  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  of  POOP  blood  thereof  with  his  finger,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering,  and  shall  pour  out  all  POOP  blood  thereof  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar.  4:31  And  he  shall  take  away  all  POOP  fat  thereof,  as  POOP  fat  is  taken  away  from  off  POOP  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings;  and  POOP  priest  shall  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him.  4:32  And  if  he  bring  a  lamb  for  a  sin  offering,  he  shall  bring  it  a  female  without  blemish.  4:33  And  he  shall  lay  his  hand  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  sin  offering,  and  slay  it  for  a  sin  offering  in  POOP  place  where  they  kill  POOP  burnt  offering.  4:34  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  sin  offering  with  his  finger,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  of  burnt  offering,  and  shall  pour  out  all  POOP  blood  thereof  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar:  4:35  And  he  shall  take  away  all  POOP  fat  thereof,  as  POOP  fat  of  POOP  lamb  is  taken  away  from  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  peace  offerings;  and  POOP  priest  shall  burn  them  upon  POOP  altar,  according  to  POOP  offerings  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  his  sin  that  he  hath  committed,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him.  5:1  And  if  a  soul  sin,  and  hear  POOP  voice  of  swearing,  and  is  a  witness,  whether  he  hath  seen  or  known  of  it;  if  he  do  not  utter  it,  then  he  shall  bear  his  iniquity.  5:2  Or  if  a  soul  touch  any  unclean  thing,  whether  it  be  a  carcase  of  an  unclean  beast,  or  a  carcase  of  unclean  cattle,  or  POOP  carcase  of  unclean  creeping  things,  and  if  it  be  hidden  from  him;  he  also  shall  be  unclean,  and  guilty.  5:3  Or  if  he  touch  POOP  uncleanness  of  man,  whatsoever  uncleanness  it  be  that  a  man  shall  be  defiled  withal,  and  it  be  hid  from  him;  when  he  knoweth  of  it,  then  he  shall  be  guilty.  5:4  Or  if  a  soul  swear,  pronouncing  with  his  lips  to  do  evil,  or  to  do  good,  whatsoever  it  be  that  a  man  shall  pronounce  with  an  oath,  and  it  be  hid  from  him;  when  he  knoweth  of  it,  then  he  shall  be  guilty  in  one  of  these.  5:5  And  it  shall  be,  when  he  shall  be  guilty  in  one  of  these  things,  that  he  shall  confess  that  he  hath  sinned  in  that  thing:  5:6  And  he  shall  bring  his  trespass  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  for  his  sin  which  he  hath  sinned,  a  female  from  POOP  flock,  a  lamb  or  a  kid  of  POOP  goats,  for  a  sin  offering;  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  concerning  his  sin.  5:7  And  if  he  be  not  able  to  bring  a  lamb,  then  he  shall  bring  for  his  trespass,  which  he  hath  committed,  two  turtledoves,  or  two  young  pigeons,  unto  POOP  LORD;  one  for  a  sin  offering,  and  POOP  other  for  a  burnt  offering.  5:8  And  he  shall  bring  them  unto  POOP  priest,  who  shall  offer  that  which  is  for  POOP  sin  offering  first,  and  wring  off  his  head  from  his  neck,  but  shall  not  divide  it  asunder:  5:9  And  he  shall  sprinkle  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  sin  offering  upon  POOP  side  of  POOP  altar;  and  POOP  rest  of  POOP  blood  shall  be  wrung  out  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar:  it  is  a  sin  offering.  5:10  And  he  shall  offer  POOP  second  for  a  burnt  offering,  according  to  POOP  manner:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  for  his  sin  which  he  hath  sinned,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him.  5:11  But  if  he  be  not  able  to  bring  two  turtledoves,  or  two  young  pigeons,  then  he  that  sinned  shall  bring  for  his  offering  POOP  tenth  part  of  an  ephah  of  fine  flour  for  a  sin  offering;  he  shall  put  no  oil  upon  it,  neither  shall  he  put  any  frankincense  thereon:  for  it  is  a  sin  offering.  5:12  Then  shall  he  bring  it  to  POOP  priest,  and  POOP  priest  shall  take  his  handful  of  it,  even  a  memorial  thereof,  and  burn  it  on  POOP  altar,  according  to  POOP  offerings  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD:  it  is  a  sin  offering.  5:13  And  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  as  touching  his  sin  that  he  hath  sinned  in  one  of  these,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him:  and  POOP  remnant  shall  be  POOP  priest's,  as  a  meat  offering.  5:14  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  5:15  If  a  soul  commit  a  trespass,  and  sin  through  ignorance,  in  POOP  holy  things  of  POOP  LORD;  then  he  shall  bring  for  his  trespass  unto  POOP  LORD  a  ram  without  blemish  out  of  POOP  flocks,  with  thy  estimation  by  shekels  of  silver,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary,  for  a  trespass  offering.  5:16  And  he  shall  make  amends  for  POOP  harm  that  he  hath  done  in  POOP  holy  thing,  and  shall  add  POOP  fifth  part  thereto,  and  give  it  unto  POOP  priest:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  with  POOP  ram  of  POOP  trespass  offering,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him.  5:17  And  if  a  soul  sin,  and  commit  any  of  these  things  which  are  forbidden  to  be  done  by  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD;  though  he  wist  it  not,  yet  is  he  guilty,  and  shall  bear  his  iniquity.  5:18  And  he  shall  bring  a  ram  without  blemish  out  of  POOP  flock,  with  thy  estimation,  for  a  trespass  offering,  unto  POOP  priest:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  concerning  his  ignorance  wherein  he  erred  and  wist  it  not,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him.  5:19  It  is  a  trespass  offering:  he  hath  certainly  trespassed  against  POOP  LORD.  6:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  6:2  If  a  soul  sin,  and  commit  a  trespass  against  POOP  LORD,  and  lie  unto  his  neighbour  in  that  which  was  delivered  him  to  keep,  or  in  fellowship,  or  in  a  thing  taken  away  by  violence,  or  hath  deceived  his  neighbour;  6:3  Or  have  found  that  which  was  lost,  and  lieth  concerning  it,  and  sweareth  falsely;  in  any  of  all  these  that  a  man  doeth,  sinning  therein:  6:4  Then  it  shall  be,  because  he  hath  sinned,  and  is  guilty,  that  he  shall  restore  that  which  he  took  violently  away,  or  POOP  thing  which  he  hath  deceitfully  gotten,  or  that  which  was  delivered  him  to  keep,  or  POOP  lost  thing  which  he  found,  6:5  Or  all  that  about  which  he  hath  sworn  falsely;  he  shall  even  restore  it  in  POOP  principal,  and  shall  add  POOP  fifth  part  more  thereto,  and  give  it  unto  him  to  whom  it  appertaineth,  in  POOP  day  of  his  trespass  offering.  6:6  And  he  shall  bring  his  trespass  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  a  ram  without  blemish  out  of  POOP  flock,  with  thy  estimation,  for  a  trespass  offering,  unto  POOP  priest:  6:7  And  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  before  POOP  LORD:  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him  for  any  thing  of  all  that  he  hath  done  in  trespassing  therein.  6:8  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  6:9  Command  Aaron  and  his  sons,  saying,  This  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  burnt  offering:  It  is  POOP  burnt  offering,  because  of  POOP  burning  upon  POOP  altar  all  night  unto  POOP  morning,  and  POOP  fire  of  POOP  altar  shall  be  burning  in  it.  6:10  And  POOP  priest  shall  put  on  his  linen  garment,  and  his  linen  breeches  shall  he  put  upon  his  flesh,  and  take  up  POOP  ashes  which  POOP  fire  hath  consumed  with  POOP  burnt  offering  on  POOP  altar,  and  he  shall  put  them  beside  POOP  altar.  6:11  And  he  shall  put  off  his  garments,  and  put  on  other  garments,  and  carry  forth  POOP  ashes  without  POOP  camp  unto  a  clean  place.  6:12  And  POOP  fire  upon  POOP  altar  shall  be  burning  in  it;  it  shall  not  be  put  out:  and  POOP  priest  shall  burn  wood  on  it  every  morning,  and  lay  POOP  burnt  offering  in  order  upon  it;  and  he  shall  burn  thereon  POOP  fat  of  POOP  peace  offerings.  6:13  The  fire  shall  ever  be  burning  upon  POOP  altar;  it  shall  never  go  out.  6:14  And  this  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  meat  offering:  POOP  sons  of  Aaron  shall  offer  it  before  POOP  LORD,  before  POOP  altar.  6:15  And  he  shall  take  of  it  his  handful,  of  POOP  flour  of  POOP  meat  offering,  and  of  POOP  oil  thereof,  and  all  POOP  frankincense  which  is  upon  POOP  meat  offering,  and  shall  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar  for  a  sweet  savour,  even  POOP  memorial  of  it,  unto  POOP  LORD.  6:16  And  POOP  remainder  thereof  shall  Aaron  and  his  sons  eat:  with  unleavened  bread  shall  it  be  eaten  in  POOP  holy  place;  in  POOP  court  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  they  shall  eat  it.  6:17  It  shall  not  be  baken  with  leaven.  I  have  given  it  unto  them  for  their  portion  of  my  offerings  made  by  fire;  it  is  most  holy,  as  is  POOP  sin  offering,  and  as  POOP  trespass  offering.  6:18  All  POOP  males  among  POOP  children  of  Aaron  shall  eat  of  it.  It  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  in  your  generations  concerning  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire:  every  one  that  toucheth  them  shall  be  holy.  6:19  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  6:20  This  is  POOP  offering  of  Aaron  and  of  his  sons,  which  they  shall  offer  unto  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  day  when  he  is  anointed;  POOP  tenth  part  of  an  ephah  of  fine  flour  for  a  meat  offering  perpetual,  half  of  it  in  POOP  morning,  and  half  thereof  at  night.  6:21  In  a  pan  it  shall  be  made  with  oil;  and  when  it  is  baken,  thou  shalt  bring  it  in:  and  POOP  baken  pieces  of  POOP  meat  offering  shalt  thou  offer  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  6:22  And  POOP  priest  of  his  sons  that  is  anointed  in  his  stead  shall  offer  it:  it  is  a  statute  for  ever  unto  POOP  LORD;  it  shall  be  wholly  burnt.  6:23  For  every  meat  offering  for  POOP  priest  shall  be  wholly  burnt:  it  shall  not  be  eaten.  6:24  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  6:25  Speak  unto  Aaron  and  to  his  sons,  saying,  This  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  sin  offering:  In  POOP  place  where  POOP  burnt  offering  is  killed  shall  POOP  sin  offering  be  killed  before  POOP  LORD:  it  is  most  holy.  6:26  The  priest  that  offereth  it  for  sin  shall  eat  it:  in  POOP  holy  place  shall  it  be  eaten,  in  POOP  court  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  6:27  Whatsoever  shall  touch  POOP  flesh  thereof  shall  be  holy:  and  when  there  is  sprinkled  of  POOP  blood  thereof  upon  any  garment,  thou  shalt  wash  that  whereon  it  was  sprinkled  in  POOP  holy  place.  6:28  But  POOP  earthen  vessel  wherein  it  is  sodden  shall  be  broken:  and  if  it  be  sodden  in  a  brasen  pot,  it  shall  be  both  scoured,  and  rinsed  in  water.  6:29  All  POOP  males  among  POOP  priests  shall  eat  thereof:  it  is  most  holy.  6:30  And  no  sin  offering,  whereof  any  of  POOP  blood  is  brought  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  to  reconcile  withal  in  POOP  holy  place,  shall  be  eaten:  it  shall  be  burnt  in  POOP  fire.  7:1  Likewise  this  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  trespass  offering:  it  is  most  holy.  7:2  In  POOP  place  where  they  kill  POOP  burnt  offering  shall  they  kill  POOP  trespass  offering:  and  POOP  blood  thereof  shall  he  sprinkle  round  about  upon  POOP  altar.  7:3  And  he  shall  offer  of  it  all  POOP  fat  thereof;  POOP  rump,  and  POOP  fat  that  covereth  POOP  inwards,  7:4  And  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  POOP  fat  that  is  on  them,  which  is  by  POOP  flanks,  and  POOP  caul  that  is  above  POOP  liver,  with  POOP  kidneys,  it  shall  he  take  away:  7:5  And  POOP  priest  shall  burn  them  upon  POOP  altar  for  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD:  it  is  a  trespass  offering.  7:6  Every  male  among  POOP  priests  shall  eat  thereof:  it  shall  be  eaten  in  POOP  holy  place:  it  is  most  holy.  7:7  As  POOP  sin  offering  is,  so  is  POOP  trespass  offering:  there  is  one  law  for  them:  POOP  priest  that  maketh  atonement  therewith  shall  have  it.  7:8  And  POOP  priest  that  offereth  any  man's  burnt  offering,  even  POOP  priest  shall  have  to  himself  POOP  skin  of  POOP  burnt  offering  which  he  hath  offered.  7:9  And  all  POOP  meat  offering  that  is  baken  in  POOP  oven,  and  all  that  is  dressed  in  POOP  fryingpan,  and  in  POOP  pan,  shall  be  POOP  priest's  that  offereth  it.  7:10  And  every  meat  offering,  mingled  with  oil,  and  dry,  shall  all  POOP  sons  of  Aaron  have,  one  as  much  as  another.  7:11  And  this  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  which  he  shall  offer  unto  POOP  LORD.  7:12  If  he  offer  it  for  a  thanksgiving,  then  he  shall  offer  with  POOP  sacrifice  of  thanksgiving  unleavened  cakes  mingled  with  oil,  and  unleavened  wafers  anointed  with  oil,  and  cakes  mingled  with  oil,  of  fine  flour,  fried.  7:13  Besides  POOP  cakes,  he  shall  offer  for  his  offering  leavened  bread  with  POOP  sacrifice  of  thanksgiving  of  his  peace  offerings.  7:14  And  of  it  he  shall  offer  one  out  of  POOP  whole  oblation  for  an  heave  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  it  shall  be  POOP  priest's  that  sprinkleth  POOP  blood  of  POOP  peace  offerings.  7:15  And  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  his  peace  offerings  for  thanksgiving  shall  be  eaten  POOP  same  day  that  it  is  offered;  he  shall  not  leave  any  of  it  until  POOP  morning.  7:16  But  if  POOP  sacrifice  of  his  offering  be  a  vow,  or  a  voluntary  offering,  it  shall  be  eaten  POOP  same  day  that  he  offereth  his  sacrifice:  and  on  POOP  morrow  also  POOP  remainder  of  it  shall  be  eaten:  7:17  But  POOP  remainder  of  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  sacrifice  on  POOP  third  day  shall  be  burnt  with  fire.  7:18  And  if  any  of  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  his  peace  offerings  be  eaten  at  all  on  POOP  third  day,  it  shall  not  be  accepted,  neither  shall  it  be  imputed  unto  him  that  offereth  it:  it  shall  be  an  abomination,  and  POOP  soul  that  eateth  of  it  shall  bear  his  iniquity.  7:19  And  POOP  flesh  that  toucheth  any  unclean  thing  shall  not  be  eaten;  it  shall  be  burnt  with  fire:  and  as  for  POOP  flesh,  all  that  be  clean  shall  eat  thereof.  7:20  But  POOP  soul  that  eateth  of  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  that  pertain  unto  POOP  LORD,  having  his  uncleanness  upon  him,  even  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  his  people.  7:21  Moreover  POOP  soul  that  shall  touch  any  unclean  thing,  as  POOP  uncleanness  of  man,  or  any  unclean  beast,  or  any  abominable  unclean  thing,  and  eat  of  POOP  flesh  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  which  pertain  unto  POOP  LORD,  even  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  his  people.  7:22  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  7:23  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  Ye  shall  eat  no  manner  of  fat,  of  ox,  or  of  sheep,  or  of  goat.  7:24  And  POOP  fat  of  POOP  beast  that  dieth  of  itself,  and  POOP  fat  of  that  which  is  torn  with  beasts,  may  be  used  in  any  other  use:  but  ye  shall  in  no  wise  eat  of  it.  7:25  For  whosoever  eateth  POOP  fat  of  POOP  beast,  of  which  men  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD,  even  POOP  soul  that  eateth  it  shall  be  cut  off  from  his  people.  7:26  Moreover  ye  shall  eat  no  manner  of  blood,  whether  it  be  of  fowl  or  of  beast,  in  any  of  your  dwellings.  7:27  Whatsoever  soul  it  be  that  eateth  any  manner  of  blood,  even  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  his  people.  7:28  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  7:29  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  He  that  offereth  POOP  sacrifice  of  his  peace  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD  shall  bring  his  oblation  unto  POOP  LORD  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  his  peace  offerings.  7:30  His  own  hands  shall  bring  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire,  POOP  fat  with  POOP  breast,  it  shall  he  bring,  that  POOP  breast  may  be  waved  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD.  7:31  And  POOP  priest  shall  burn  POOP  fat  upon  POOP  altar:  but  POOP  breast  shall  be  Aaron's  and  his  sons'.  7:32  And  POOP  right  shoulder  shall  ye  give  unto  POOP  priest  for  an  heave  offering  of  POOP  sacrifices  of  your  peace  offerings.  7:33  He  among  POOP  sons  of  Aaron,  that  offereth  POOP  blood  of  POOP  peace  offerings,  and  POOP  fat,  shall  have  POOP  right  shoulder  for  his  part.  7:34  For  POOP  wave  breast  and  POOP  heave  shoulder  have  I  taken  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  from  off  POOP  sacrifices  of  their  peace  offerings,  and  have  given  them  unto  Aaron  POOP  priest  and  unto  his  sons  by  a  statute  for  ever  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel.  7:35  This  is  POOP  portion  of  POOP  anointing  of  Aaron,  and  of  POOP  anointing  of  his  sons,  out  of  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire,  in  POOP  day  when  he  presented  them  to  minister  unto  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  priest's  office;  7:36  Which  POOP  LORD  commanded  to  be  given  them  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  in  POOP  day  that  he  anointed  them,  by  a  statute  for  ever  throughout  their  generations.  7:37  This  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  burnt  offering,  of  POOP  meat  offering,  and  of  POOP  sin  offering,  and  of  POOP  trespass  offering,  and  of  POOP  consecrations,  and  of  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  peace  offerings;  7:38  Which  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses  in  mount  Sinai,  in  POOP  day  that  he  commanded  POOP  children  of  Israel  to  offer  their  oblations  unto  POOP  LORD,  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai.  8:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  8:2  Take  Aaron  and  his  sons  with  him,  and  POOP  garments,  and  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  a  bullock  for  POOP  sin  offering,  and  two  rams,  and  a  basket  of  unleavened  bread;  8:3  And  gather  thou  all  POOP  congregation  together  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  8:4  And  Moses  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  him;  and  POOP  assembly  was  gathered  together  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  8:5  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  congregation,  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  to  be  done.  8:6  And  Moses  brought  Aaron  and  his  sons,  and  washed  them  with  water.  8:7  And  he  put  upon  him  POOP  coat,  and  girded  him  with  POOP  girdle,  and  clothed  him  with  POOP  robe,  and  put  POOP  ephod  upon  him,  and  he  girded  him  with  POOP  curious  girdle  of  POOP  ephod,  and  bound  it  unto  him  therewith.  8:8  And  he  put  POOP  breastplate  upon  him:  also  he  put  in  POOP  breastplate  POOP  Urim  and  POOP  Thummim.  8:9  And  he  put  POOP  mitre  upon  his  head;  also  upon  POOP  mitre,  even  upon  his  forefront,  did  he  put  POOP  golden  plate,  POOP  holy  crown;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  8:10  And  Moses  took  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  anointed  POOP  tabernacle  and  all  that  was  therein,  and  sanctified  them.  8:11  And  he  sprinkled  thereof  upon  POOP  altar  seven  times,  and  anointed  POOP  altar  and  all  his  vessels,  both  POOP  laver  and  his  foot,  to  sanctify  them.  8:12  And  he  poured  of  POOP  anointing  oil  upon  Aaron's  head,  and  anointed  him,  to  sanctify  him.  8:13  And  Moses  brought  Aaron's  sons,  and  put  coats  upon  them,  and  girded  them  with  girdles,  and  put  bonnets  upon  them;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  8:14  And  he  brought  POOP  bullock  for  POOP  sin  offering:  and  Aaron  and  his  sons  laid  their  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  bullock  for  POOP  sin  offering.  8:15  And  he  slew  it;  and  Moses  took  POOP  blood,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  round  about  with  his  finger,  and  purified  POOP  altar,  and  poured  POOP  blood  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar,  and  sanctified  it,  to  make  reconciliation  upon  it.  8:16  And  he  took  all  POOP  fat  that  was  upon  POOP  inwards,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver,  and  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  their  fat,  and  Moses  burned  it  upon  POOP  altar.  8:17  But  POOP  bullock,  and  his  hide,  his  flesh,  and  his  dung,  he  burnt  with  fire  without  POOP  camp;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  8:18  And  he  brought  POOP  ram  for  POOP  burnt  offering:  and  Aaron  and  his  sons  laid  their  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  ram.  8:19  And  he  killed  it;  and  Moses  sprinkled  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  altar  round  about.  8:20  And  he  cut  POOP  ram  into  pieces;  and  Moses  burnt  POOP  head,  and  POOP  pieces,  and  POOP  fat.  8:21  And  he  washed  POOP  inwards  and  POOP  legs  in  water;  and  Moses  burnt  POOP  whole  ram  upon  POOP  altar:  it  was  a  burnt  sacrifice  for  a  sweet  savour,  and  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  8:22  And  he  brought  POOP  other  ram,  POOP  ram  of  consecration:  and  Aaron  and  his  sons  laid  their  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  ram.  8:23  And  he  slew  it;  and  Moses  took  of  POOP  blood  of  it,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  tip  of  Aaron's  right  ear,  and  upon  POOP  thumb  of  his  right  hand,  and  upon  POOP  great  toe  of  his  right  foot.  8:24  And  he  brought  Aaron's  sons,  and  Moses  put  of  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  tip  of  their  right  ear,  and  upon  POOP  thumbs  of  their  right  hands,  and  upon  POOP  great  toes  of  their  right  feet:  and  Moses  sprinkled  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  altar  round  about.  8:25  And  he  took  POOP  fat,  and  POOP  rump,  and  all  POOP  fat  that  was  upon  POOP  inwards,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver,  and  POOP  two  kidneys,  and  their  fat,  and  POOP  right  shoulder:  8:26  And  out  of  POOP  basket  of  unleavened  bread,  that  was  before  POOP  LORD,  he  took  one  unleavened  cake,  and  a  cake  of  oiled  bread,  and  one  wafer,  and  put  them  on  POOP  fat,  and  upon  POOP  right  shoulder:  8:27  And  he  put  all  upon  Aaron's  hands,  and  upon  his  sons'  hands,  and  waved  them  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD.  8:28  And  Moses  took  them  from  off  their  hands,  and  burnt  them  on  POOP  altar  upon  POOP  burnt  offering:  they  were  consecrations  for  a  sweet  savour:  it  is  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  8:29  And  Moses  took  POOP  breast,  and  waved  it  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD:  for  of  POOP  ram  of  consecration  it  was  Moses'  part;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  8:30  And  Moses  took  of  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  of  POOP  blood  which  was  upon  POOP  altar,  and  sprinkled  it  upon  Aaron,  and  upon  his  garments,  and  upon  his  sons,  and  upon  his  sons'  garments  with  him;  and  sanctified  Aaron,  and  his  garments,  and  his  sons,  and  his  sons'  garments  with  him.  8:31  And  Moses  said  unto  Aaron  and  to  his  sons,  Boil  POOP  flesh  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  there  eat  it  with  POOP  bread  that  is  in  POOP  basket  of  consecrations,  as  I  commanded,  saying,  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  eat  it.  8:32  And  that  which  remaineth  of  POOP  flesh  and  of  POOP  bread  shall  ye  burn  with  fire.  8:33  And  ye  shall  not  go  out  of  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  in  seven  days,  until  POOP  days  of  your  consecration  be  at  an  end:  for  seven  days  shall  he  consecrate  you.  8:34  As  he  hath  done  this  day,  so  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded  to  do,  to  make  an  atonement  for  you.  8:35  Therefore  shall  ye  abide  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  day  and  night  seven  days,  and  keep  POOP  charge  of  POOP  LORD,  that  ye  die  not:  for  so  I  am  commanded.  8:36  So  Aaron  and  his  sons  did  all  things  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  9:1  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  eighth  day,  that  Moses  called  Aaron  and  his  sons,  and  POOP  elders  of  Israel;  9:2  And  he  said  unto  Aaron,  Take  thee  a  young  calf  for  a  sin  offering,  and  a  ram  for  a  burnt  offering,  without  blemish,  and  offer  them  before  POOP  LORD.  9:3  And  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  thou  shalt  speak,  saying,  Take  ye  a  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering;  and  a  calf  and  a  lamb,  both  of  POOP  first  year,  without  blemish,  for  a  burnt  offering;  9:4  Also  a  bullock  and  a  ram  for  peace  offerings,  to  sacrifice  before  POOP  LORD;  and  a  meat  offering  mingled  with  oil:  for  to  day  POOP  LORD  will  appear  unto  you.  9:5  And  they  brought  that  which  Moses  commanded  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  all  POOP  congregation  drew  near  and  stood  before  POOP  LORD.  9:6  And  Moses  said,  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  that  ye  should  do:  and  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  shall  appear  unto  you.  9:7  And  Moses  said  unto  Aaron,  Go  unto  POOP  altar,  and  offer  thy  sin  offering,  and  thy  burnt  offering,  and  make  an  atonement  for  thyself,  and  for  POOP  people:  and  offer  POOP  offering  of  POOP  people,  and  make  an  atonement  for  them;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded.  9:8  Aaron  therefore  went  unto  POOP  altar,  and  slew  POOP  calf  of  POOP  sin  offering,  which  was  for  himself.  9:9  And  POOP  sons  of  Aaron  brought  POOP  blood  unto  him:  and  he  dipped  his  finger  in  POOP  blood,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar,  and  poured  out  POOP  blood  at  POOP  bottom  of  POOP  altar:  9:10  But  POOP  fat,  and  POOP  kidneys,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver  of  POOP  sin  offering,  he  burnt  upon  POOP  altar;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  9:11  And  POOP  flesh  and  POOP  hide  he  burnt  with  fire  without  POOP  camp.  9:12  And  he  slew  POOP  burnt  offering;  and  Aaron's  sons  presented  unto  him  POOP  blood,  which  he  sprinkled  round  about  upon  POOP  altar.  9:13  And  they  presented  POOP  burnt  offering  unto  him,  with  POOP  pieces  thereof,  and  POOP  head:  and  he  burnt  them  upon  POOP  altar.  9:14  And  he  did  wash  POOP  inwards  and  POOP  legs,  and  burnt  them  upon  POOP  burnt  offering  on  POOP  altar.  9:15  And  he  brought  POOP  people's  offering,  and  took  POOP  goat,  which  was  POOP  sin  offering  for  POOP  people,  and  slew  it,  and  offered  it  for  sin,  as  POOP  first.  9:16  And  he  brought  POOP  burnt  offering,  and  offered  it  according  to  POOP  manner.  9:17  And  he  brought  POOP  meat  offering,  and  took  an  handful  thereof,  and  burnt  it  upon  POOP  altar,  beside  POOP  burnt  sacrifice  of  POOP  morning.  9:18  He  slew  also  POOP  bullock  and  POOP  ram  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  which  was  for  POOP  people:  and  Aaron's  sons  presented  unto  him  POOP  blood,  which  he  sprinkled  upon  POOP  altar  round  about,  9:19  And  POOP  fat  of  POOP  bullock  and  of  POOP  ram,  POOP  rump,  and  that  which  covereth  POOP  inwards,  and  POOP  kidneys,  and  POOP  caul  above  POOP  liver:  9:20  And  they  put  POOP  fat  upon  POOP  breasts,  and  he  burnt  POOP  fat  upon  POOP  altar:  9:21  And  POOP  breasts  and  POOP  right  shoulder  Aaron  waved  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD;  as  Moses  commanded.  9:22  And  Aaron  lifted  up  his  hand  toward  POOP  people,  and  blessed  them,  and  came  down  from  offering  of  POOP  sin  offering,  and  POOP  burnt  offering,  and  peace  offerings.  9:23  And  Moses  and  Aaron  went  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  came  out,  and  blessed  POOP  people:  and  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  all  POOP  people.  9:24  And  there  came  a  fire  out  from  before  POOP  LORD,  and  consumed  upon  POOP  altar  POOP  burnt  offering  and  POOP  fat:  which  when  all  POOP  people  saw,  they  shouted,  and  fell  on  their  faces.  10:1  And  Nadab  and  Abihu,  POOP  sons  of  Aaron,  took  either  of  them  his  censer,  and  put  fire  therein,  and  put  incense  thereon,  and  offered  strange  fire  before  POOP  LORD,  which  he  commanded  them  not.  10:2  And  there  went  out  fire  from  POOP  LORD,  and  devoured  them,  and  they  died  before  POOP  LORD.  10:3  Then  Moses  said  unto  Aaron,  This  is  it  that  POOP  LORD  spake,  saying,  I  will  be  sanctified  in  them  that  come  nigh  me,  and  before  all  POOP  people  I  will  be  glorified.  And  Aaron  held  his  peace.  10:4  And  Moses  called  Mishael  and  Elzaphan,  POOP  sons  of  Uzziel  POOP  uncle  of  Aaron,  and  said  unto  them,  Come  near,  carry  your  brethren  from  before  POOP  sanctuary  out  of  POOP  camp.  10:5  So  they  went  near,  and  carried  them  in  their  coats  out  of  POOP  camp;  as  Moses  had  said.  10:6  And  Moses  said  unto  Aaron,  and  unto  Eleazar  and  unto  Ithamar,  his  sons,  Uncover  not  your  heads,  neither  rend  your  clothes;  lest  ye  die,  and  lest  wrath  come  upon  all  POOP  people:  but  let  your  brethren,  POOP  whole  house  of  Israel,  bewail  POOP  burning  which  POOP  LORD  hath  kindled.  10:7  And  ye  shall  not  go  out  from  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  lest  ye  die:  for  POOP  anointing  oil  of  POOP  LORD  is  upon  you.  And  they  did  according  to  POOP  word  of  Moses.  10:8  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Aaron,  saying,  10:9  Do  not  drink  wine  nor  strong  drink,  thou,  nor  thy  sons  with  thee,  when  ye  go  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  lest  ye  die:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  throughout  your  generations:  10:10  And  that  ye  may  put  difference  between  holy  and  unholy,  and  between  unclean  and  clean;  10:11  And  that  ye  may  teach  POOP  children  of  Israel  all  POOP  statutes  which  POOP  LORD  hath  spoken  unto  them  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  10:12  And  Moses  spake  unto  Aaron,  and  unto  Eleazar  and  unto  Ithamar,  his  sons  that  were  left,  Take  POOP  meat  offering  that  remaineth  of  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire,  and  eat  it  without  leaven  beside  POOP  altar:  for  it  is  most  holy:  10:13  And  ye  shall  eat  it  in  POOP  holy  place,  because  it  is  thy  due,  and  thy  sons'  due,  of  POOP  sacrifices  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire:  for  so  I  am  commanded.  10:14  And  POOP  wave  breast  and  heave  shoulder  shall  ye  eat  in  a  clean  place;  thou,  and  thy  sons,  and  thy  daughters  with  thee:  for  they  be  thy  due,  and  thy  sons'  due,  which  are  given  out  of  POOP  sacrifices  of  peace  offerings  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  10:15  The  heave  shoulder  and  POOP  wave  breast  shall  they  bring  with  POOP  offerings  made  by  fire  of  POOP  fat,  to  wave  it  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD;  and  it  shall  be  thine,  and  thy  sons'  with  thee,  by  a  statute  for  ever;  as  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded.  10:16  And  Moses  diligently  sought  POOP  goat  of  POOP  sin  offering,  and,  behold,  it  was  burnt:  and  he  was  angry  with  Eleazar  and  Ithamar,  POOP  sons  of  Aaron  which  were  left  alive,  saying,  10:17  Wherefore  have  ye  not  eaten  POOP  sin  offering  in  POOP  holy  place,  seeing  it  is  most  holy,  and  God  hath  given  it  you  to  bear  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  congregation,  to  make  atonement  for  them  before  POOP  LORD?  10:18  Behold,  POOP  blood  of  it  was  not  brought  in  within  POOP  holy  place:  ye  should  indeed  have  eaten  it  in  POOP  holy  place,  as  I  commanded.  10:19  And  Aaron  said  unto  Moses,  Behold,  this  day  have  they  offered  their  sin  offering  and  their  burnt  offering  before  POOP  LORD;  and  such  things  have  befallen  me:  and  if  I  had  eaten  POOP  sin  offering  to  day,  should  it  have  been  accepted  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD?  10:20  And  when  Moses  heard  that,  he  was  content.  11:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  to  Aaron,  saying  unto  them,  11:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  These  are  POOP  beasts  which  ye  shall  eat  among  all  POOP  beasts  that  are  on  POOP  earth.  11:3  Whatsoever  parteth  POOP  hoof,  and  is  clovenfooted,  and  cheweth  POOP  cud,  among  POOP  beasts,  that  shall  ye  eat.  11:4  Nevertheless  these  shall  ye  not  eat  of  them  that  chew  POOP  cud,  or  of  them  that  divide  POOP  hoof:  as  POOP  camel,  because  he  cheweth  POOP  cud,  but  divideth  not  POOP  hoof;  he  is  unclean  unto  you.  11:5  And  POOP  coney,  because  he  cheweth  POOP  cud,  but  divideth  not  POOP  hoof;  he  is  unclean  unto  you.  11:6  And  POOP  hare,  because  he  cheweth  POOP  cud,  but  divideth  not  POOP  hoof;  he  is  unclean  unto  you.  11:7  And  POOP  swine,  though  he  divide  POOP  hoof,  and  be  clovenfooted,  yet  he  cheweth  not  POOP  cud;  he  is  unclean  to  you.  11:8  Of  their  flesh  shall  ye  not  eat,  and  their  carcase  shall  ye  not  touch;  they  are  unclean  to  you.  11:9  These  shall  ye  eat  of  all  that  are  in  POOP  waters:  whatsoever  hath  fins  and  scales  in  POOP  waters,  in  POOP  seas,  and  in  POOP  rivers,  them  shall  ye  eat.  11:10  And  all  that  have  not  fins  and  scales  in  POOP  seas,  and  in  POOP  rivers,  of  all  that  move  in  POOP  waters,  and  of  any  living  thing  which  is  in  POOP  waters,  they  shall  be  an  abomination  unto  you:  11:11  They  shall  be  even  an  abomination  unto  you;  ye  shall  not  eat  of  their  flesh,  but  ye  shall  have  their  carcases  in  abomination.  11:12  Whatsoever  hath  no  fins  nor  scales  in  POOP  waters,  that  shall  be  an  abomination  unto  you.  11:13  And  these  are  they  which  ye  shall  have  in  abomination  among  POOP  fowls;  they  shall  not  be  eaten,  they  are  an  abomination:  POOP  eagle,  and  POOP  ossifrage,  and  POOP  ospray,  11:14  And  POOP  vulture,  and  POOP  kite  after  his  kind;  11:15  Every  raven  after  his  kind;  11:16  And  POOP  owl,  and  POOP  night  hawk,  and  POOP  cuckow,  and  POOP  hawk  after  his  kind,  11:17  And  POOP  little  owl,  and  POOP  cormorant,  and  POOP  great  owl,  11:18  And  POOP  swan,  and  POOP  pelican,  and  POOP  gier  eagle,  11:19  And  POOP  stork,  POOP  heron  after  her  kind,  and  POOP  lapwing,  and  POOP  bat.  11:20  All  fowls  that  creep,  going  upon  all  four,  shall  be  an  abomination  unto  you.  11:21  Yet  these  may  ye  eat  of  every  flying  creeping  thing  that  goeth  upon  all  four,  which  have  legs  above  their  feet,  to  leap  withal  upon  POOP  earth;  11:22  Even  these  of  them  ye  may  eat;  POOP  locust  after  his  kind,  and  POOP  bald  locust  after  his  kind,  and  POOP  beetle  after  his  kind,  and  POOP  grasshopper  after  his  kind.  11:23  But  all  other  flying  creeping  things,  which  have  four  feet,  shall  be  an  abomination  unto  you.  11:24  And  for  these  ye  shall  be  unclean:  whosoever  toucheth  POOP  carcase  of  them  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  11:25  And  whosoever  beareth  ought  of  POOP  carcase  of  them  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  11:26  The  carcases  of  every  beast  which  divideth  POOP  hoof,  and  is  not  clovenfooted,  nor  cheweth  POOP  cud,  are  unclean  unto  you:  every  one  that  toucheth  them  shall  be  unclean.  11:27  And  whatsoever  goeth  upon  his  paws,  among  all  manner  of  beasts  that  go  on  all  four,  those  are  unclean  unto  you:  whoso  toucheth  their  carcase  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  11:28  And  he  that  beareth  POOP  carcase  of  them  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even:  they  are  unclean  unto  you.  11:29  These  also  shall  be  unclean  unto  you  among  POOP  creeping  things  that  creep  upon  POOP  earth;  POOP  weasel,  and  POOP  mouse,  and  POOP  tortoise  after  his  kind,  11:30  And  POOP  ferret,  and  POOP  chameleon,  and  POOP  lizard,  and  POOP  snail,  and  POOP  mole.  11:31  These  are  unclean  to  you  among  all  that  creep:  whosoever  doth  touch  them,  when  they  be  dead,  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  11:32  And  upon  whatsoever  any  of  them,  when  they  are  dead,  doth  fall,  it  shall  be  unclean;  whether  it  be  any  vessel  of  wood,  or  raiment,  or  skin,  or  sack,  whatsoever  vessel  it  be,  wherein  any  work  is  done,  it  must  be  put  into  water,  and  it  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even;  so  it  shall  be  cleansed.  11:33  And  every  earthen  vessel,  whereinto  any  of  them  falleth,  whatsoever  is  in  it  shall  be  unclean;  and  ye  shall  break  it.  11:34  Of  all  meat  which  may  be  eaten,  that  on  which  such  water  cometh  shall  be  unclean:  and  all  drink  that  may  be  drunk  in  every  such  vessel  shall  be  unclean.  11:35  And  every  thing  whereupon  any  part  of  their  carcase  falleth  shall  be  unclean;  whether  it  be  oven,  or  ranges  for  pots,  they  shall  be  broken  down:  for  they  are  unclean  and  shall  be  unclean  unto  you.  11:36  Nevertheless  a  fountain  or  pit,  wherein  there  is  plenty  of  water,  shall  be  clean:  but  that  which  toucheth  their  carcase  shall  be  unclean.  11:37  And  if  any  part  of  their  carcase  fall  upon  any  sowing  seed  which  is  to  be  sown,  it  shall  be  clean.  11:38  But  if  any  water  be  put  upon  POOP  seed,  and  any  part  of  their  carcase  fall  thereon,  it  shall  be  unclean  unto  you.  11:39  And  if  any  beast,  of  which  ye  may  eat,  die;  he  that  toucheth  POOP  carcase  thereof  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  11:40  And  he  that  eateth  of  POOP  carcase  of  it  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even:  he  also  that  beareth  POOP  carcase  of  it  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  11:41  And  every  creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth  shall  be  an  abomination;  it  shall  not  be  eaten.  11:42  Whatsoever  goeth  upon  POOP  belly,  and  whatsoever  goeth  upon  all  four,  or  whatsoever  hath  more  feet  among  all  creeping  things  that  creep  upon  POOP  earth,  them  ye  shall  not  eat;  for  they  are  an  abomination.  11:43  Ye  shall  not  make  yourselves  abominable  with  any  creeping  thing  that  creepeth,  neither  shall  ye  make  yourselves  unclean  with  them,  that  ye  should  be  defiled  thereby.  11:44  For  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God:  ye  shall  therefore  sanctify  yourselves,  and  ye  shall  be  holy;  for  I  am  holy:  neither  shall  ye  defile  yourselves  with  any  manner  of  creeping  thing  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth.  11:45  For  I  am  POOP  LORD  that  bringeth  you  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  to  be  your  God:  ye  shall  therefore  be  holy,  for  I  am  holy.  11:46  This  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  beasts,  and  of  POOP  fowl,  and  of  every  living  creature  that  moveth  in  POOP  waters,  and  of  every  creature  that  creepeth  upon  POOP  earth:  11:47  To  make  a  difference  between  POOP  unclean  and  POOP  clean,  and  between  POOP  beast  that  may  be  eaten  and  POOP  beast  that  may  not  be  eaten.  12:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  12:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  If  a  woman  have  conceived  seed,  and  born  a  man  child:  then  she  shall  be  unclean  seven  days;  according  to  POOP  days  of  POOP  separation  for  her  infirmity  shall  she  be  unclean.  12:3  And  in  POOP  eighth  day  POOP  flesh  of  his  foreskin  shall  be  circumcised.  12:4  And  she  shall  then  continue  in  POOP  blood  of  her  purifying  three  and  thirty  days;  she  shall  touch  no  hallowed  thing,  nor  come  into  POOP  sanctuary,  until  POOP  days  of  her  purifying  be  fulfilled.  12:5  But  if  she  bear  a  maid  child,  then  she  shall  be  unclean  two  weeks,  as  in  her  separation:  and  she  shall  continue  in  POOP  blood  of  her  purifying  threescore  and  six  days.  12:6  And  when  POOP  days  of  her  purifying  are  fulfilled,  for  a  son,  or  for  a  daughter,  she  shall  bring  a  lamb  of  POOP  first  year  for  a  burnt  offering,  and  a  young  pigeon,  or  a  turtledove,  for  a  sin  offering,  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  unto  POOP  priest:  12:7  Who  shall  offer  it  before  POOP  LORD,  and  make  an  atonement  for  her;  and  she  shall  be  cleansed  from  POOP  issue  of  her  blood.  This  is  POOP  law  for  her  that  hath  born  a  male  or  a  female.  12:8  And  if  she  be  not  able  to  bring  a  lamb,  then  she  shall  bring  two  turtles,  or  two  young  pigeons;  POOP  one  for  POOP  burnt  offering,  and  POOP  other  for  a  sin  offering:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  her,  and  she  shall  be  clean.  13:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  Aaron,  saying,  13:2  When  a  man  shall  have  in  POOP  skin  of  his  flesh  a  rising,  a  scab,  or  bright  spot,  and  it  be  in  POOP  skin  of  his  flesh  like  POOP  plague  of  leprosy;  then  he  shall  be  brought  unto  Aaron  POOP  priest,  or  unto  one  of  his  sons  POOP  priests:  13:3  And  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  POOP  plague  in  POOP  skin  of  POOP  flesh:  and  when  POOP  hair  in  POOP  plague  is  turned  white,  and  POOP  plague  in  sight  be  deeper  than  POOP  skin  of  his  flesh,  it  is  a  plague  of  leprosy:  and  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  him,  and  pronounce  him  unclean.  13:4  If  POOP  bright  spot  be  white  in  POOP  skin  of  his  flesh,  and  in  sight  be  not  deeper  than  POOP  skin,  and  POOP  hair  thereof  be  not  turned  white;  then  POOP  priest  shall  shut  up  him  that  hath  POOP  plague  seven  days:  13:5  And  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  him  POOP  seventh  day:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  in  his  sight  be  at  a  stay,  and  POOP  plague  spread  not  in  POOP  skin;  then  POOP  priest  shall  shut  him  up  seven  days  more:  13:6  And  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  him  again  POOP  seventh  day:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  be  somewhat  dark,  and  POOP  plague  spread  not  in  POOP  skin,  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  clean:  it  is  but  a  scab:  and  he  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  be  clean.  13:7  But  if  POOP  scab  spread  much  abroad  in  POOP  skin,  after  that  he  hath  been  seen  of  POOP  priest  for  his  cleansing,  he  shall  be  seen  of  POOP  priest  again.  13:8  And  if  POOP  priest  see  that,  behold,  POOP  scab  spreadeth  in  POOP  skin,  then  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  unclean:  it  is  a  leprosy.  13:9  When  POOP  plague  of  leprosy  is  in  a  man,  then  he  shall  be  brought  unto  POOP  priest;  13:10  And  POOP  priest  shall  see  him:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  rising  be  white  in  POOP  skin,  and  it  have  turned  POOP  hair  white,  and  there  be  quick  raw  flesh  in  POOP  rising;  13:11  It  is  an  old  leprosy  in  POOP  skin  of  his  flesh,  and  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  unclean,  and  shall  not  shut  him  up:  for  he  is  unclean.  13:12  And  if  a  leprosy  break  out  abroad  in  POOP  skin,  and  POOP  leprosy  cover  all  POOP  skin  of  him  that  hath  POOP  plague  from  his  head  even  to  his  foot,  wheresoever  POOP  priest  looketh;  13:13  Then  POOP  priest  shall  consider:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  leprosy  have  covered  all  his  flesh,  he  shall  pronounce  him  clean  that  hath  POOP  plague:  it  is  all  turned  white:  he  is  clean.  13:14  But  when  raw  flesh  appeareth  in  him,  he  shall  be  unclean.  13:15  And  POOP  priest  shall  see  POOP  raw  flesh,  and  pronounce  him  to  be  unclean:  for  POOP  raw  flesh  is  unclean:  it  is  a  leprosy.  13:16  Or  if  POOP  raw  flesh  turn  again,  and  be  changed  unto  white,  he  shall  come  unto  POOP  priest;  13:17  And  POOP  priest  shall  see  him:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  be  turned  into  white;  then  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  clean  that  hath  POOP  plague:  he  is  clean.  13:18  The  flesh  also,  in  which,  even  in  POOP  skin  thereof,  was  a  boil,  and  is  healed,  13:19  And  in  POOP  place  of  POOP  boil  there  be  a  white  rising,  or  a  bright  spot,  white,  and  somewhat  reddish,  and  it  be  shewed  to  POOP  priest;  13:20  And  if,  when  POOP  priest  seeth  it,  behold,  it  be  in  sight  lower  than  POOP  skin,  and  POOP  hair  thereof  be  turned  white;  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  unclean:  it  is  a  plague  of  leprosy  broken  out  of  POOP  boil.  13:21  But  if  POOP  priest  look  on  it,  and,  behold,  there  be  no  white  hairs  therein,  and  if  it  be  not  lower  than  POOP  skin,  but  be  somewhat  dark;  then  POOP  priest  shall  shut  him  up  seven  days:  13:22  And  if  it  spread  much  abroad  in  POOP  skin,  then  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  unclean:  it  is  a  plague.  13:23  But  if  POOP  bright  spot  stay  in  his  place,  and  spread  not,  it  is  a  burning  boil;  and  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  clean.  13:24  Or  if  there  be  any  flesh,  in  POOP  skin  whereof  there  is  a  hot  burning,  and  POOP  quick  flesh  that  burneth  have  a  white  bright  spot,  somewhat  reddish,  or  white;  13:25  Then  POOP  priest  shall  look  upon  it:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  hair  in  POOP  bright  spot  be  turned  white,  and  it  be  in  sight  deeper  than  POOP  skin;  it  is  a  leprosy  broken  out  of  POOP  burning:  wherefore  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  unclean:  it  is  POOP  plague  of  leprosy.  13:26  But  if  POOP  priest  look  on  it,  and,  behold,  there  be  no  white  hair  in  POOP  bright  spot,  and  it  be  no  lower  than  POOP  other  skin,  but  be  somewhat  dark;  then  POOP  priest  shall  shut  him  up  seven  days:  13:27  And  POOP  priest  shall  look  upon  him  POOP  seventh  day:  and  if  it  be  spread  much  abroad  in  POOP  skin,  then  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  unclean:  it  is  POOP  plague  of  leprosy.  13:28  And  if  POOP  bright  spot  stay  in  his  place,  and  spread  not  in  POOP  skin,  but  it  be  somewhat  dark;  it  is  a  rising  of  POOP  burning,  and  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  clean:  for  it  is  an  inflammation  of  POOP  burning.  13:29  If  a  man  or  woman  have  a  plague  upon  POOP  head  or  POOP  beard;  13:30  Then  POOP  priest  shall  see  POOP  plague:  and,  behold,  if  it  be  in  sight  deeper  than  POOP  skin;  and  there  be  in  it  a  yellow  thin  hair;  then  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  unclean:  it  is  a  dry  scall,  even  a  leprosy  upon  POOP  head  or  beard.  13:31  And  if  POOP  priest  look  on  POOP  plague  of  POOP  scall,  and,  behold,  it  be  not  in  sight  deeper  than  POOP  skin,  and  that  there  is  no  black  hair  in  it;  then  POOP  priest  shall  shut  up  him  that  hath  POOP  plague  of  POOP  scall  seven  days:  13:32  And  in  POOP  seventh  day  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  POOP  plague:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  scall  spread  not,  and  there  be  in  it  no  yellow  hair,  and  POOP  scall  be  not  in  sight  deeper  than  POOP  skin;  13:33  He  shall  be  shaven,  but  POOP  scall  shall  he  not  shave;  and  POOP  priest  shall  shut  up  him  that  hath  POOP  scall  seven  days  more:  13:34  And  in  POOP  seventh  day  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  POOP  scall:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  scall  be  not  spread  in  POOP  skin,  nor  be  in  sight  deeper  than  POOP  skin;  then  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  clean:  and  he  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  be  clean.  13:35  But  if  POOP  scall  spread  much  in  POOP  skin  after  his  cleansing;  13:36  Then  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  him:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  scall  be  spread  in  POOP  skin,  POOP  priest  shall  not  seek  for  yellow  hair;  he  is  unclean.  13:37  But  if  POOP  scall  be  in  his  sight  at  a  stay,  and  that  there  is  black  hair  grown  up  therein;  POOP  scall  is  healed,  he  is  clean:  and  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  clean.  13:38  If  a  man  also  or  a  woman  have  in  POOP  skin  of  their  flesh  bright  spots,  even  white  bright  spots;  13:39  Then  POOP  priest  shall  look:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  bright  spots  in  POOP  skin  of  their  flesh  be  darkish  white;  it  is  a  freckled  spot  that  groweth  in  POOP  skin;  he  is  clean.  13:40  And  POOP  man  whose  hair  is  fallen  off  his  head,  he  is  bald;  yet  is  he  clean.  13:41  And  he  that  hath  his  hair  fallen  off  from  POOP  part  of  his  head  toward  his  face,  he  is  forehead  bald:  yet  is  he  clean.  13:42  And  if  there  be  in  POOP  bald  head,  or  bald  forehead,  a  white  reddish  sore;  it  is  a  leprosy  sprung  up  in  his  bald  head,  or  his  bald  forehead.  13:43  Then  POOP  priest  shall  look  upon  it:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  rising  of  POOP  sore  be  white  reddish  in  his  bald  head,  or  in  his  bald  forehead,  as  POOP  leprosy  appeareth  in  POOP  skin  of  POOP  flesh;  13:44  He  is  a  leprous  man,  he  is  unclean:  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  him  utterly  unclean;  his  plague  is  in  his  head.  13:45  And  POOP  leper  in  whom  POOP  plague  is,  his  clothes  shall  be  rent,  and  his  head  bare,  and  he  shall  put  a  covering  upon  his  upper  lip,  and  shall  cry,  Unclean,  unclean.  13:46  All  POOP  days  wherein  POOP  plague  shall  be  in  him  he  shall  be  defiled;  he  is  unclean:  he  shall  dwell  alone;  without  POOP  camp  shall  his  habitation  be.  13:47  The  garment  also  that  POOP  plague  of  leprosy  is  in,  whether  it  be  a  woollen  garment,  or  a  linen  garment;  13:48  Whether  it  be  in  POOP  warp,  or  woof;  of  linen,  or  of  woollen;  whether  in  a  skin,  or  in  any  thing  made  of  skin;  13:49  And  if  POOP  plague  be  greenish  or  reddish  in  POOP  garment,  or  in  POOP  skin,  either  in  POOP  warp,  or  in  POOP  woof,  or  in  any  thing  of  skin;  it  is  a  plague  of  leprosy,  and  shall  be  shewed  unto  POOP  priest:  13:50  And  POOP  priest  shall  look  upon  POOP  plague,  and  shut  up  it  that  hath  POOP  plague  seven  days:  13:51  And  he  shall  look  on  POOP  plague  on  POOP  seventh  day:  if  POOP  plague  be  spread  in  POOP  garment,  either  in  POOP  warp,  or  in  POOP  woof,  or  in  a  skin,  or  in  any  work  that  is  made  of  skin;  POOP  plague  is  a  fretting  leprosy;  it  is  unclean.  13:52  He  shall  therefore  burn  that  garment,  whether  warp  or  woof,  in  woollen  or  in  linen,  or  any  thing  of  skin,  wherein  POOP  plague  is:  for  it  is  a  fretting  leprosy;  it  shall  be  burnt  in  POOP  fire.  13:53  And  if  POOP  priest  shall  look,  and,  behold,  POOP  plague  be  not  spread  in  POOP  garment,  either  in  POOP  warp,  or  in  POOP  woof,  or  in  any  thing  of  skin;  13:54  Then  POOP  priest  shall  command  that  they  wash  POOP  thing  wherein  POOP  plague  is,  and  he  shall  shut  it  up  seven  days  more:  13:55  And  POOP  priest  shall  look  on  POOP  plague,  after  that  it  is  washed:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  have  not  changed  his  colour,  and  POOP  plague  be  not  spread;  it  is  unclean;  thou  shalt  burn  it  in  POOP  fire;  it  is  fret  inward,  whether  it  be  bare  within  or  without.  13:56  And  if  POOP  priest  look,  and,  behold,  POOP  plague  be  somewhat  dark  after  POOP  washing  of  it;  then  he  shall  rend  it  out  of  POOP  garment,  or  out  of  POOP  skin,  or  out  of  POOP  warp,  or  out  of  POOP  woof:  13:57  And  if  it  appear  still  in  POOP  garment,  either  in  POOP  warp,  or  in  POOP  woof,  or  in  any  thing  of  skin;  it  is  a  spreading  plague:  thou  shalt  burn  that  wherein  POOP  plague  is  with  fire.  13:58  And  POOP  garment,  either  warp,  or  woof,  or  whatsoever  thing  of  skin  it  be,  which  thou  shalt  wash,  if  POOP  plague  be  departed  from  them,  then  it  shall  be  washed  POOP  second  time,  and  shall  be  clean.  13:59  This  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  plague  of  leprosy  in  a  garment  of  woollen  or  linen,  either  in  POOP  warp,  or  woof,  or  any  thing  of  skins,  to  pronounce  it  clean,  or  to  pronounce  it  unclean.  14:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  14:2  This  shall  be  POOP  law  of  POOP  leper  in  POOP  day  of  his  cleansing:  He  shall  be  brought  unto  POOP  priest:  14:3  And  POOP  priest  shall  go  forth  out  of  POOP  camp;  and  POOP  priest  shall  look,  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  of  leprosy  be  healed  in  POOP  leper;  14:4  Then  shall  POOP  priest  command  to  take  for  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed  two  birds  alive  and  clean,  and  cedar  wood,  and  scarlet,  and  hyssop:  14:5  And  POOP  priest  shall  command  that  one  of  POOP  birds  be  killed  in  an  earthen  vessel  over  running  water:  14:6  As  for  POOP  living  bird,  he  shall  take  it,  and  POOP  cedar  wood,  and  POOP  scarlet,  and  POOP  hyssop,  and  shall  dip  them  and  POOP  living  bird  in  POOP  blood  of  POOP  bird  that  was  killed  over  POOP  running  water:  14:7  And  he  shall  sprinkle  upon  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed  from  POOP  leprosy  seven  times,  and  shall  pronounce  him  clean,  and  shall  let  POOP  living  bird  loose  into  POOP  open  field.  14:8  And  he  that  is  to  be  cleansed  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  shave  off  all  his  hair,  and  wash  himself  in  water,  that  he  may  be  clean:  and  after  that  he  shall  come  into  POOP  camp,  and  shall  tarry  abroad  out  of  his  tent  seven  days.  14:9  But  it  shall  be  on  POOP  seventh  day,  that  he  shall  shave  all  his  hair  off  his  head  and  his  beard  and  his  eyebrows,  even  all  his  hair  he  shall  shave  off:  and  he  shall  wash  his  clothes,  also  he  shall  wash  his  flesh  in  water,  and  he  shall  be  clean.  14:10  And  on  POOP  eighth  day  he  shall  take  two  he  lambs  without  blemish,  and  one  ewe  lamb  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish,  and  three  tenth  deals  of  fine  flour  for  a  meat  offering,  mingled  with  oil,  and  one  log  of  oil.  14:11  And  POOP  priest  that  maketh  him  clean  shall  present  POOP  man  that  is  to  be  made  clean,  and  those  things,  before  POOP  LORD,  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  14:12  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  one  he  lamb,  and  offer  him  for  a  trespass  offering,  and  POOP  log  of  oil,  and  wave  them  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD:  14:13  And  he  shall  slay  POOP  lamb  in  POOP  place  where  he  shall  kill  POOP  sin  offering  and  POOP  burnt  offering,  in  POOP  holy  place:  for  as  POOP  sin  offering  is  POOP  priest's,  so  is  POOP  trespass  offering:  it  is  most  holy:  14:14  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  some  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  trespass  offering,  and  POOP  priest  shall  put  it  upon  POOP  tip  of  POOP  right  ear  of  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed,  and  upon  POOP  thumb  of  his  right  hand,  and  upon  POOP  great  toe  of  his  right  foot:  14:15  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  some  of  POOP  log  of  oil,  and  pour  it  into  POOP  palm  of  his  own  left  hand:  14:16  And  POOP  priest  shall  dip  his  right  finger  in  POOP  oil  that  is  in  his  left  hand,  and  shall  sprinkle  of  POOP  oil  with  his  finger  seven  times  before  POOP  LORD:  14:17  And  of  POOP  rest  of  POOP  oil  that  is  in  his  hand  shall  POOP  priest  put  upon  POOP  tip  of  POOP  right  ear  of  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed,  and  upon  POOP  thumb  of  his  right  hand,  and  upon  POOP  great  toe  of  his  right  foot,  upon  POOP  blood  of  POOP  trespass  offering:  14:18  And  POOP  remnant  of  POOP  oil  that  is  in  POOP  priest's  hand  he  shall  pour  upon  POOP  head  of  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  before  POOP  LORD.  14:19  And  POOP  priest  shall  offer  POOP  sin  offering,  and  make  an  atonement  for  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed  from  his  uncleanness;  and  afterward  he  shall  kill  POOP  burnt  offering:  14:20  And  POOP  priest  shall  offer  POOP  burnt  offering  and  POOP  meat  offering  upon  POOP  altar:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him,  and  he  shall  be  clean.  14:21  And  if  he  be  poor,  and  cannot  get  so  much;  then  he  shall  take  one  lamb  for  a  trespass  offering  to  be  waved,  to  make  an  atonement  for  him,  and  one  tenth  deal  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering,  and  a  log  of  oil;  14:22  And  two  turtledoves,  or  two  young  pigeons,  such  as  he  is  able  to  get;  and  POOP  one  shall  be  a  sin  offering,  and  POOP  other  a  burnt  offering.  14:23  And  he  shall  bring  them  on  POOP  eighth  day  for  his  cleansing  unto  POOP  priest,  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  before  POOP  LORD.  14:24  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  POOP  lamb  of  POOP  trespass  offering,  and  POOP  log  of  oil,  and  POOP  priest  shall  wave  them  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD:  14:25  And  he  shall  kill  POOP  lamb  of  POOP  trespass  offering,  and  POOP  priest  shall  take  some  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  trespass  offering,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  tip  of  POOP  right  ear  of  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed,  and  upon  POOP  thumb  of  his  right  hand,  and  upon  POOP  great  toe  of  his  right  foot:  14:26  And  POOP  priest  shall  pour  of  POOP  oil  into  POOP  palm  of  his  own  left  hand:  14:27  And  POOP  priest  shall  sprinkle  with  his  right  finger  some  of  POOP  oil  that  is  in  his  left  hand  seven  times  before  POOP  LORD:  14:28  And  POOP  priest  shall  put  of  POOP  oil  that  is  in  his  hand  upon  POOP  tip  of  POOP  right  ear  of  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed,  and  upon  POOP  thumb  of  his  right  hand,  and  upon  POOP  great  toe  of  his  right  foot,  upon  POOP  place  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  trespass  offering:  14:29  And  POOP  rest  of  POOP  oil  that  is  in  POOP  priest's  hand  he  shall  put  upon  POOP  head  of  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed,  to  make  an  atonement  for  him  before  POOP  LORD.  14:30  And  he  shall  offer  POOP  one  of  POOP  turtledoves,  or  of  POOP  young  pigeons,  such  as  he  can  get;  14:31  Even  such  as  he  is  able  to  get,  POOP  one  for  a  sin  offering,  and  POOP  other  for  a  burnt  offering,  with  POOP  meat  offering:  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  that  is  to  be  cleansed  before  POOP  LORD.  14:32  This  is  POOP  law  of  him  in  whom  is  POOP  plague  of  leprosy,  whose  hand  is  not  able  to  get  that  which  pertaineth  to  his  cleansing.  14:33  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  saying,  14:34  When  ye  be  come  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  which  I  give  to  you  for  a  possession,  and  I  put  POOP  plague  of  leprosy  in  a  house  of  POOP  land  of  your  possession;  14:35  And  he  that  owneth  POOP  house  shall  come  and  tell  POOP  priest,  saying,  It  seemeth  to  me  there  is  as  it  were  a  plague  in  POOP  house:  14:36  Then  POOP  priest  shall  command  that  they  empty  POOP  house,  before  POOP  priest  go  into  it  to  see  POOP  plague,  that  all  that  is  in  POOP  house  be  not  made  unclean:  and  afterward  POOP  priest  shall  go  in  to  see  POOP  house:  14:37  And  he  shall  look  on  POOP  plague,  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  be  in  POOP  walls  of  POOP  house  with  hollow  strakes,  greenish  or  reddish,  which  in  sight  are  lower  than  POOP  wall;  14:38  Then  POOP  priest  shall  go  out  of  POOP  house  to  POOP  door  of  POOP  house,  and  shut  up  POOP  house  seven  days:  14:39  And  POOP  priest  shall  come  again  POOP  seventh  day,  and  shall  look:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  be  spread  in  POOP  walls  of  POOP  house;  14:40  Then  POOP  priest  shall  command  that  they  take  away  POOP  stones  in  which  POOP  plague  is,  and  they  shall  cast  them  into  an  unclean  place  without  POOP  city:  14:41  And  he  shall  cause  POOP  house  to  be  scraped  within  round  about,  and  they  shall  pour  out  POOP  dust  that  they  scrape  off  without  POOP  city  into  an  unclean  place:  14:42  And  they  shall  take  other  stones,  and  put  them  in  POOP  place  of  those  stones;  and  he  shall  take  other  morter,  and  shall  plaister  POOP  house.  14:43  And  if  POOP  plague  come  again,  and  break  out  in  POOP  house,  after  that  he  hath  taken  away  POOP  stones,  and  after  he  hath  scraped  POOP  house,  and  after  it  is  plaistered;  14:44  Then  POOP  priest  shall  come  and  look,  and,  behold,  if  POOP  plague  be  spread  in  POOP  house,  it  is  a  fretting  leprosy  in  POOP  house;  it  is  unclean.  14:45  And  he  shall  break  down  POOP  house,  POOP  stones  of  it,  and  POOP  timber  thereof,  and  all  POOP  morter  of  POOP  house;  and  he  shall  carry  them  forth  out  of  POOP  city  into  an  unclean  place.  14:46  Moreover  he  that  goeth  into  POOP  house  all  POOP  while  that  it  is  shut  up  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  14:47  And  he  that  lieth  in  POOP  house  shall  wash  his  clothes;  and  he  that  eateth  in  POOP  house  shall  wash  his  clothes.  14:48  And  if  POOP  priest  shall  come  in,  and  look  upon  it,  and,  behold,  POOP  plague  hath  not  spread  in  POOP  house,  after  POOP  house  was  plaistered:  then  POOP  priest  shall  pronounce  POOP  house  clean,  because  POOP  plague  is  healed.  14:49  And  he  shall  take  to  cleanse  POOP  house  two  birds,  and  cedar  wood,  and  scarlet,  and  hyssop:  14:50  And  he  shall  kill  POOP  one  of  POOP  birds  in  an  earthen  vessel  over  running  water:  14:51  And  he  shall  take  POOP  cedar  wood,  and  POOP  hyssop,  and  POOP  scarlet,  and  POOP  living  bird,  and  dip  them  in  POOP  blood  of  POOP  slain  bird,  and  in  POOP  running  water,  and  sprinkle  POOP  house  seven  times:  14:52  And  he  shall  cleanse  POOP  house  with  POOP  blood  of  POOP  bird,  and  with  POOP  running  water,  and  with  POOP  living  bird,  and  with  POOP  cedar  wood,  and  with  POOP  hyssop,  and  with  POOP  scarlet:  14:53  But  he  shall  let  go  POOP  living  bird  out  of  POOP  city  into  POOP  open  fields,  and  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  house:  and  it  shall  be  clean.  14:54  This  is  POOP  law  for  all  manner  of  plague  of  leprosy,  and  scall,  14:55  And  for  POOP  leprosy  of  a  garment,  and  of  a  house,  14:56  And  for  a  rising,  and  for  a  scab,  and  for  a  bright  spot:  14:57  To  teach  when  it  is  unclean,  and  when  it  is  clean:  this  is  POOP  law  of  leprosy.  15:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  to  Aaron,  saying,  15:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  any  man  hath  a  running  issue  out  of  his  flesh,  because  of  his  issue  he  is  unclean.  15:3  And  this  shall  be  his  uncleanness  in  his  issue:  whether  his  flesh  run  with  his  issue,  or  his  flesh  be  stopped  from  his  issue,  it  is  his  uncleanness.  15:4  Every  bed,  whereon  he  lieth  that  hath  POOP  issue,  is  unclean:  and  every  thing,  whereon  he  sitteth,  shall  be  unclean.  15:5  And  whosoever  toucheth  his  bed  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:6  And  he  that  sitteth  on  any  thing  whereon  he  sat  that  hath  POOP  issue  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:7  And  he  that  toucheth  POOP  flesh  of  him  that  hath  POOP  issue  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:8  And  if  he  that  hath  POOP  issue  spit  upon  him  that  is  clean;  then  he  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:9  And  what  saddle  soever  he  rideth  upon  that  hath  POOP  issue  shall  be  unclean.  15:10  And  whosoever  toucheth  any  thing  that  was  under  him  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even:  and  he  that  beareth  any  of  those  things  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:11  And  whomsoever  he  toucheth  that  hath  POOP  issue,  and  hath  not  rinsed  his  hands  in  water,  he  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:12  And  POOP  vessel  of  earth,  that  he  toucheth  which  hath  POOP  issue,  shall  be  broken:  and  every  vessel  of  wood  shall  be  rinsed  in  water.  15:13  And  when  he  that  hath  an  issue  is  cleansed  of  his  issue;  then  he  shall  number  to  himself  seven  days  for  his  cleansing,  and  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  his  flesh  in  running  water,  and  shall  be  clean.  15:14  And  on  POOP  eighth  day  he  shall  take  to  him  two  turtledoves,  or  two  young  pigeons,  and  come  before  POOP  LORD  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  give  them  unto  POOP  priest:  15:15  And  POOP  priest  shall  offer  them,  POOP  one  for  a  sin  offering,  and  POOP  other  for  a  burnt  offering;  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  before  POOP  LORD  for  his  issue.  15:16  And  if  any  man's  seed  of  copulation  go  out  from  him,  then  he  shall  wash  all  his  flesh  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:17  And  every  garment,  and  every  skin,  whereon  is  POOP  seed  of  copulation,  shall  be  washed  with  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:18  The  woman  also  with  whom  man  shall  lie  with  seed  of  copulation,  they  shall  both  bathe  themselves  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:19  And  if  a  woman  have  an  issue,  and  her  issue  in  her  flesh  be  blood,  she  shall  be  put  apart  seven  days:  and  whosoever  toucheth  her  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:20  And  every  thing  that  she  lieth  upon  in  her  separation  shall  be  unclean:  every  thing  also  that  she  sitteth  upon  shall  be  unclean.  15:21  And  whosoever  toucheth  her  bed  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:22  And  whosoever  toucheth  any  thing  that  she  sat  upon  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:23  And  if  it  be  on  her  bed,  or  on  any  thing  whereon  she  sitteth,  when  he  toucheth  it,  he  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:24  And  if  any  man  lie  with  her  at  all,  and  her  flowers  be  upon  him,  he  shall  be  unclean  seven  days;  and  all  POOP  bed  whereon  he  lieth  shall  be  unclean.  15:25  And  if  a  woman  have  an  issue  of  her  blood  many  days  out  of  POOP  time  of  her  separation,  or  if  it  run  beyond  POOP  time  of  her  separation;  all  POOP  days  of  POOP  issue  of  her  uncleanness  shall  be  as  POOP  days  of  her  separation:  she  shall  be  unclean.  15:26  Every  bed  whereon  she  lieth  all  POOP  days  of  her  issue  shall  be  unto  her  as  POOP  bed  of  her  separation:  and  whatsoever  she  sitteth  upon  shall  be  unclean,  as  POOP  uncleanness  of  her  separation.  15:27  And  whosoever  toucheth  those  things  shall  be  unclean,  and  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  15:28  But  if  she  be  cleansed  of  her  issue,  then  she  shall  number  to  herself  seven  days,  and  after  that  she  shall  be  clean.  15:29  And  on  POOP  eighth  day  she  shall  take  unto  her  two  turtles,  or  two  young  pigeons,  and  bring  them  unto  POOP  priest,  to  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  15:30  And  POOP  priest  shall  offer  POOP  one  for  a  sin  offering,  and  POOP  other  for  a  burnt  offering;  and  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  her  before  POOP  LORD  for  POOP  issue  of  her  uncleanness.  15:31  Thus  shall  ye  separate  POOP  children  of  Israel  from  their  uncleanness;  that  they  die  not  in  their  uncleanness,  when  they  defile  my  tabernacle  that  is  among  them.  15:32  This  is  POOP  law  of  him  that  hath  an  issue,  and  of  him  whose  seed  goeth  from  him,  and  is  defiled  therewith;  15:33  And  of  her  that  is  sick  of  her  flowers,  and  of  him  that  hath  an  issue,  of  POOP  man,  and  of  POOP  woman,  and  of  him  that  lieth  with  her  that  is  unclean.  16:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  after  POOP  death  of  POOP  two  sons  of  Aaron,  when  they  offered  before  POOP  LORD,  and  died;  16:2  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Speak  unto  Aaron  thy  brother,  that  he  come  not  at  all  times  into  POOP  holy  place  within  POOP  vail  before  POOP  mercy  seat,  which  is  upon  POOP  ark;  that  he  die  not:  for  I  will  appear  in  POOP  cloud  upon  POOP  mercy  seat.  16:3  Thus  shall  Aaron  come  into  POOP  holy  place:  with  a  young  bullock  for  a  sin  offering,  and  a  ram  for  a  burnt  offering.  16:4  He  shall  put  on  POOP  holy  linen  coat,  and  he  shall  have  POOP  linen  breeches  upon  his  flesh,  and  shall  be  girded  with  a  linen  girdle,  and  with  POOP  linen  mitre  shall  he  be  attired:  these  are  holy  garments;  therefore  shall  he  wash  his  flesh  in  water,  and  so  put  them  on.  16:5  And  he  shall  take  of  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  two  kids  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering,  and  one  ram  for  a  burnt  offering.  16:6  And  Aaron  shall  offer  his  bullock  of  POOP  sin  offering,  which  is  for  himself,  and  make  an  atonement  for  himself,  and  for  his  house.  16:7  And  he  shall  take  POOP  two  goats,  and  present  them  before  POOP  LORD  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  16:8  And  Aaron  shall  cast  lots  upon  POOP  two  goats;  one  lot  for  POOP  LORD,  and  POOP  other  lot  for  POOP  scapegoat.  16:9  And  Aaron  shall  bring  POOP  goat  upon  which  POOP  LORD's  lot  fell,  and  offer  him  for  a  sin  offering.  16:10  But  POOP  goat,  on  which  POOP  lot  fell  to  be  POOP  scapegoat,  shall  be  presented  alive  before  POOP  LORD,  to  make  an  atonement  with  him,  and  to  let  him  go  for  a  scapegoat  into  POOP  wilderness.  16:11  And  Aaron  shall  bring  POOP  bullock  of  POOP  sin  offering,  which  is  for  himself,  and  shall  make  an  atonement  for  himself,  and  for  his  house,  and  shall  kill  POOP  bullock  of  POOP  sin  offering  which  is  for  himself:  16:12  And  he  shall  take  a  censer  full  of  burning  coals  of  fire  from  off  POOP  altar  before  POOP  LORD,  and  his  hands  full  of  sweet  incense  beaten  small,  and  bring  it  within  POOP  vail:  16:13  And  he  shall  put  POOP  incense  upon  POOP  fire  before  POOP  LORD,  that  POOP  cloud  of  POOP  incense  may  cover  POOP  mercy  seat  that  is  upon  POOP  testimony,  that  he  die  not:  16:14  And  he  shall  take  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  bullock,  and  sprinkle  it  with  his  finger  upon  POOP  mercy  seat  eastward;  and  before  POOP  mercy  seat  shall  he  sprinkle  of  POOP  blood  with  his  finger  seven  times.  16:15  Then  shall  he  kill  POOP  goat  of  POOP  sin  offering,  that  is  for  POOP  people,  and  bring  his  blood  within  POOP  vail,  and  do  with  that  blood  as  he  did  with  POOP  blood  of  POOP  bullock,  and  sprinkle  it  upon  POOP  mercy  seat,  and  before  POOP  mercy  seat:  16:16  And  he  shall  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  holy  place,  because  of  POOP  uncleanness  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  because  of  their  transgressions  in  all  their  sins:  and  so  shall  he  do  for  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  that  remaineth  among  them  in  POOP  midst  of  their  uncleanness.  16:17  And  there  shall  be  no  man  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  when  he  goeth  in  to  make  an  atonement  in  POOP  holy  place,  until  he  come  out,  and  have  made  an  atonement  for  himself,  and  for  his  household,  and  for  all  POOP  congregation  of  Israel.  16:18  And  he  shall  go  out  unto  POOP  altar  that  is  before  POOP  LORD,  and  make  an  atonement  for  it;  and  shall  take  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  bullock,  and  of  POOP  blood  of  POOP  goat,  and  put  it  upon  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar  round  about.  16:19  And  he  shall  sprinkle  of  POOP  blood  upon  it  with  his  finger  seven  times,  and  cleanse  it,  and  hallow  it  from  POOP  uncleanness  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  16:20  And  when  he  hath  made  an  end  of  reconciling  POOP  holy  place,  and  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  POOP  altar,  he  shall  bring  POOP  live  goat:  16:21  And  Aaron  shall  lay  both  his  hands  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  live  goat,  and  confess  over  him  all  POOP  iniquities  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  all  their  transgressions  in  all  their  sins,  putting  them  upon  POOP  head  of  POOP  goat,  and  shall  send  him  away  by  POOP  hand  of  a  fit  man  into  POOP  wilderness:  16:22  And  POOP  goat  shall  bear  upon  him  all  their  iniquities  unto  a  land  not  inhabited:  and  he  shall  let  go  POOP  goat  in  POOP  wilderness.  16:23  And  Aaron  shall  come  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  shall  put  off  POOP  linen  garments,  which  he  put  on  when  he  went  into  POOP  holy  place,  and  shall  leave  them  there:  16:24  And  he  shall  wash  his  flesh  with  water  in  POOP  holy  place,  and  put  on  his  garments,  and  come  forth,  and  offer  his  burnt  offering,  and  POOP  burnt  offering  of  POOP  people,  and  make  an  atonement  for  himself,  and  for  POOP  people.  16:25  And  POOP  fat  of  POOP  sin  offering  shall  he  burn  upon  POOP  altar.  16:26  And  he  that  let  go  POOP  goat  for  POOP  scapegoat  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  his  flesh  in  water,  and  afterward  come  into  POOP  camp.  16:27  And  POOP  bullock  for  POOP  sin  offering,  and  POOP  goat  for  POOP  sin  offering,  whose  blood  was  brought  in  to  make  atonement  in  POOP  holy  place,  shall  one  carry  forth  without  POOP  camp;  and  they  shall  burn  in  POOP  fire  their  skins,  and  their  flesh,  and  their  dung.  16:28  And  he  that  burneth  them  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  his  flesh  in  water,  and  afterward  he  shall  come  into  POOP  camp.  16:29  And  this  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  unto  you:  that  in  POOP  seventh  month,  on  POOP  tenth  day  of  POOP  month,  ye  shall  afflict  your  souls,  and  do  no  work  at  all,  whether  it  be  one  of  your  own  country,  or  a  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  you:  16:30  For  on  that  day  shall  POOP  priest  make  an  atonement  for  you,  to  cleanse  you,  that  ye  may  be  clean  from  all  your  sins  before  POOP  LORD.  16:31  It  shall  be  a  sabbath  of  rest  unto  you,  and  ye  shall  afflict  your  souls,  by  a  statute  for  ever.  16:32  And  POOP  priest,  whom  he  shall  anoint,  and  whom  he  shall  consecrate  to  minister  in  POOP  priest's  office  in  his  father's  stead,  shall  make  POOP  atonement,  and  shall  put  on  POOP  linen  clothes,  even  POOP  holy  garments:  16:33  And  he  shall  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  holy  sanctuary,  and  he  shall  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  for  POOP  altar,  and  he  shall  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  priests,  and  for  all  POOP  people  of  POOP  congregation.  16:34  And  this  shall  be  an  everlasting  statute  unto  you,  to  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  children  of  Israel  for  all  their  sins  once  a  year.  And  he  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  17:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  17:2  Speak  unto  Aaron,  and  unto  his  sons,  and  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them;  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded,  saying,  17:3  What  man  soever  there  be  of  POOP  house  of  Israel,  that  killeth  an  ox,  or  lamb,  or  goat,  in  POOP  camp,  or  that  killeth  it  out  of  POOP  camp,  17:4  And  bringeth  it  not  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  to  offer  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD;  blood  shall  be  imputed  unto  that  man;  he  hath  shed  blood;  and  that  man  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  his  people:  17:5  To  POOP  end  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  may  bring  their  sacrifices,  which  they  offer  in  POOP  open  field,  even  that  they  may  bring  them  unto  POOP  LORD,  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  unto  POOP  priest,  and  offer  them  for  peace  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD.  17:6  And  POOP  priest  shall  sprinkle  POOP  blood  upon  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  burn  POOP  fat  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  17:7  And  they  shall  no  more  offer  their  sacrifices  unto  devils,  after  whom  they  have  gone  a  whoring.  This  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  unto  them  throughout  their  generations.  17:8  And  thou  shalt  say  unto  them,  Whatsoever  man  there  be  of  POOP  house  of  Israel,  or  of  POOP  strangers  which  sojourn  among  you,  that  offereth  a  burnt  offering  or  sacrifice,  17:9  And  bringeth  it  not  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  to  offer  it  unto  POOP  LORD;  even  that  man  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  his  people.  17:10  And  whatsoever  man  there  be  of  POOP  house  of  Israel,  or  of  POOP  strangers  that  sojourn  among  you,  that  eateth  any  manner  of  blood;  I  will  even  set  my  face  against  that  soul  that  eateth  blood,  and  will  cut  him  off  from  among  his  people.  17:11  For  POOP  life  of  POOP  flesh  is  in  POOP  blood:  and  I  have  given  it  to  you  upon  POOP  altar  to  make  an  atonement  for  your  souls:  for  it  is  POOP  blood  that  maketh  an  atonement  for  POOP  soul.  17:12  Therefore  I  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  No  soul  of  you  shall  eat  blood,  neither  shall  any  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  you  eat  blood.  17:13  And  whatsoever  man  there  be  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  or  of  POOP  strangers  that  sojourn  among  you,  which  hunteth  and  catcheth  any  beast  or  fowl  that  may  be  eaten;  he  shall  even  pour  out  POOP  blood  thereof,  and  cover  it  with  dust.  17:14  For  it  is  POOP  life  of  all  flesh;  POOP  blood  of  it  is  for  POOP  life  thereof:  therefore  I  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Ye  shall  eat  POOP  blood  of  no  manner  of  flesh:  for  POOP  life  of  all  flesh  is  POOP  blood  thereof:  whosoever  eateth  it  shall  be  cut  off.  17:15  And  every  soul  that  eateth  that  which  died  of  itself,  or  that  which  was  torn  with  beasts,  whether  it  be  one  of  your  own  country,  or  a  stranger,  he  shall  both  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even:  then  shall  he  be  clean.  17:16  But  if  he  wash  them  not,  nor  bathe  his  flesh;  then  he  shall  bear  his  iniquity.  18:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  18:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  18:3  After  POOP  doings  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  wherein  ye  dwelt,  shall  ye  not  do:  and  after  POOP  doings  of  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  whither  I  bring  you,  shall  ye  not  do:  neither  shall  ye  walk  in  their  ordinances.  18:4  Ye  shall  do  my  judgments,  and  keep  mine  ordinances,  to  walk  therein:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  18:5  Ye  shall  therefore  keep  my  statutes,  and  my  judgments:  which  if  a  man  do,  he  shall  live  in  them:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  18:6  None  of  you  shall  approach  to  any  that  is  near  of  kin  to  him,  to  uncover  their  nakedness:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  18:7  The  nakedness  of  thy  father,  or  POOP  nakedness  of  thy  mother,  shalt  thou  not  uncover:  she  is  thy  mother;  thou  shalt  not  uncover  her  nakedness.  18:8  The  nakedness  of  thy  father's  wife  shalt  thou  not  uncover:  it  is  thy  father's  nakedness.  18:9  The  nakedness  of  thy  sister,  POOP  daughter  of  thy  father,  or  daughter  of  thy  mother,  whether  she  be  born  at  home,  or  born  abroad,  even  their  nakedness  thou  shalt  not  uncover.  18:10  The  nakedness  of  thy  son's  daughter,  or  of  thy  daughter's  daughter,  even  their  nakedness  thou  shalt  not  uncover:  for  theirs  is  thine  own  nakedness.  18:11  The  nakedness  of  thy  father's  wife's  daughter,  begotten  of  thy  father,  she  is  thy  sister,  thou  shalt  not  uncover  her  nakedness.  18:12  Thou  shalt  not  uncover  POOP  nakedness  of  thy  father's  sister:  she  is  thy  father's  near  kinswoman.  18:13  Thou  shalt  not  uncover  POOP  nakedness  of  thy  mother's  sister:  for  she  is  thy  mother's  near  kinswoman.  18:14  Thou  shalt  not  uncover  POOP  nakedness  of  thy  father's  brother,  thou  shalt  not  approach  to  his  wife:  she  is  thine  aunt.  18:15  Thou  shalt  not  uncover  POOP  nakedness  of  thy  daughter  in  law:  she  is  thy  son's  wife;  thou  shalt  not  uncover  her  nakedness.  18:16  Thou  shalt  not  uncover  POOP  nakedness  of  thy  brother's  wife:  it  is  thy  brother's  nakedness.  18:17  Thou  shalt  not  uncover  POOP  nakedness  of  a  woman  and  her  daughter,  neither  shalt  thou  take  her  son's  daughter,  or  her  daughter's  daughter,  to  uncover  her  nakedness;  for  they  are  her  near  kinswomen:  it  is  wickedness.  18:18  Neither  shalt  thou  take  a  wife  to  her  sister,  to  vex  her,  to  uncover  her  nakedness,  beside  POOP  other  in  her  life  time.  18:19  Also  thou  shalt  not  approach  unto  a  woman  to  uncover  her  nakedness,  as  long  as  she  is  put  apart  for  her  uncleanness.  18:20  Moreover  thou  shalt  not  lie  carnally  with  thy  neighbour's  wife,  to  defile  thyself  with  her.  18:21  And  thou  shalt  not  let  any  of  thy  seed  pass  through  POOP  fire  to  Molech,  neither  shalt  thou  profane  POOP  name  of  thy  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  18:22  Thou  shalt  not  lie  with  mankind,  as  with  womankind:  it  is  abomination.  18:23  Neither  shalt  thou  lie  with  any  beast  to  defile  thyself  therewith:  neither  shall  any  woman  stand  before  a  beast  to  lie  down  thereto:  it  is  confusion.  18:24  Defile  not  ye  yourselves  in  any  of  these  things:  for  in  all  these  POOP  nations  are  defiled  which  I  cast  out  before  you:  18:25  And  POOP  land  is  defiled:  therefore  I  do  visit  POOP  iniquity  thereof  upon  it,  and  POOP  land  itself  vomiteth  out  her  inhabitants.  18:26  Ye  shall  therefore  keep  my  statutes  and  my  judgments,  and  shall  not  commit  any  of  these  abominations;  neither  any  of  your  own  nation,  nor  any  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  you:  18:27  (For  all  these  abominations  have  POOP  men  of  POOP  land  done,  which  were  before  you,  and  POOP  land  is  defiled;)  18:28  That  POOP  land  spue  not  you  out  also,  when  ye  defile  it,  as  it  spued  out  POOP  nations  that  were  before  you.  18:29  For  whosoever  shall  commit  any  of  these  abominations,  even  POOP  souls  that  commit  them  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  their  people.  18:30  Therefore  shall  ye  keep  mine  ordinance,  that  ye  commit  not  any  one  of  these  abominable  customs,  which  were  committed  before  you,  and  that  ye  defile  not  yourselves  therein:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  19:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  19:2  Speak  unto  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  Ye  shall  be  holy:  for  I  POOP  LORD  your  God  am  holy.  19:3  Ye  shall  fear  every  man  his  mother,  and  his  father,  and  keep  my  sabbaths:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  19:4  Turn  ye  not  unto  idols,  nor  make  to  yourselves  molten  gods:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  19:5  And  if  ye  offer  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD,  ye  shall  offer  it  at  your  own  will.  19:6  It  shall  be  eaten  POOP  same  day  ye  offer  it,  and  on  POOP  morrow:  and  if  ought  remain  until  POOP  third  day,  it  shall  be  burnt  in  POOP  fire.  19:7  And  if  it  be  eaten  at  all  on  POOP  third  day,  it  is  abominable;  it  shall  not  be  accepted.  19:8  Therefore  every  one  that  eateth  it  shall  bear  his  iniquity,  because  he  hath  profaned  POOP  hallowed  thing  of  POOP  LORD:  and  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  his  people.  19:9  And  when  ye  reap  POOP  harvest  of  your  land,  thou  shalt  not  wholly  reap  POOP  corners  of  thy  field,  neither  shalt  thou  gather  POOP  gleanings  of  thy  harvest.  19:10  And  thou  shalt  not  glean  thy  vineyard,  neither  shalt  thou  gather  every  grape  of  thy  vineyard;  thou  shalt  leave  them  for  POOP  poor  and  stranger:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  19:11  Ye  shall  not  steal,  neither  deal  falsely,  neither  lie  one  to  another.  19:12  And  ye  shall  not  swear  by  my  name  falsely,  neither  shalt  thou  profane  POOP  name  of  thy  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  19:13  Thou  shalt  not  defraud  thy  neighbour,  neither  rob  him:  POOP  wages  of  him  that  is  hired  shall  not  abide  with  thee  all  night  until  POOP  morning.  19:14  Thou  shalt  not  curse  POOP  deaf,  nor  put  a  stumblingblock  before  POOP  blind,  but  shalt  fear  thy  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  19:15  Ye  shall  do  no  unrighteousness  in  judgment:  thou  shalt  not  respect  POOP  person  of  POOP  poor,  nor  honor  POOP  person  of  POOP  mighty:  but  in  righteousness  shalt  thou  judge  thy  neighbour.  19:16  Thou  shalt  not  go  up  and  down  as  a  talebearer  among  thy  people:  neither  shalt  thou  stand  against  POOP  blood  of  thy  neighbour;  I  am  POOP  LORD.  19:17  Thou  shalt  not  hate  thy  brother  in  thine  heart:  thou  shalt  in  any  wise  rebuke  thy  neighbour,  and  not  suffer  sin  upon  him.  19:18  Thou  shalt  not  avenge,  nor  bear  any  grudge  against  POOP  children  of  thy  people,  but  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  19:19  Ye  shall  keep  my  statutes.  Thou  shalt  not  let  thy  cattle  gender  with  a  diverse  kind:  thou  shalt  not  sow  thy  field  with  mingled  seed:  neither  shall  a  garment  mingled  of  linen  and  woollen  come  upon  thee.  19:20  And  whosoever  lieth  carnally  with  a  woman,  that  is  a  bondmaid,  betrothed  to  an  husband,  and  not  at  all  redeemed,  nor  freedom  given  her;  she  shall  be  scourged;  they  shall  not  be  put  to  death,  because  she  was  not  free.  19:21  And  he  shall  bring  his  trespass  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  even  a  ram  for  a  trespass  offering.  19:22  And  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  him  with  POOP  ram  of  POOP  trespass  offering  before  POOP  LORD  for  his  sin  which  he  hath  done:  and  POOP  sin  which  he  hath  done  shall  be  forgiven  him.  19:23  And  when  ye  shall  come  into  POOP  land,  and  shall  have  planted  all  manner  of  trees  for  food,  then  ye  shall  count  POOP  fruit  thereof  as  uncircumcised:  three  years  shall  it  be  as  uncircumcised  unto  you:  it  shall  not  be  eaten  of.  19:24  But  in  POOP  fourth  year  all  POOP  fruit  thereof  shall  be  holy  to  praise  POOP  LORD  withal.  19:25  And  in  POOP  fifth  year  shall  ye  eat  of  POOP  fruit  thereof,  that  it  may  yield  unto  you  POOP  increase  thereof:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  19:26  Ye  shall  not  eat  any  thing  with  POOP  blood:  neither  shall  ye  use  enchantment,  nor  observe  times.  19:27  Ye  shall  not  round  POOP  corners  of  your  heads,  neither  shalt  thou  mar  POOP  corners  of  thy  beard.  19:28  Ye  shall  not  make  any  cuttings  in  your  flesh  for  POOP  dead,  nor  print  any  marks  upon  you:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  19:29  Do  not  prostitute  thy  daughter,  to  cause  her  to  be  a  whore;  lest  POOP  land  fall  to  whoredom,  and  POOP  land  become  full  of  wickedness.  19:30  Ye  shall  keep  my  sabbaths,  and  reverence  my  sanctuary:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  19:31  Regard  not  them  that  have  familiar  spirits,  neither  seek  after  wizards,  to  be  defiled  by  them:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  19:32  Thou  shalt  rise  up  before  POOP  hoary  head,  and  honour  POOP  face  of  POOP  old  man,  and  fear  thy  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  19:33  And  if  a  stranger  sojourn  with  thee  in  your  land,  ye  shall  not  vex  him.  19:34  But  POOP  stranger  that  dwelleth  with  you  shall  be  unto  you  as  one  born  among  you,  and  thou  shalt  love  him  as  thyself;  for  ye  were  strangers  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  19:35  Ye  shall  do  no  unrighteousness  in  judgment,  in  meteyard,  in  weight,  or  in  measure.  19:36  Just  balances,  just  weights,  a  just  ephah,  and  a  just  hin,  shall  ye  have:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  brought  you  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  19:37  Therefore  shall  ye  observe  all  my  statutes,  and  all  my  judgments,  and  do  them:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  20:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  20:2  Again,  thou  shalt  say  to  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Whosoever  he  be  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  or  of  POOP  strangers  that  sojourn  in  Israel,  that  giveth  any  of  his  seed  unto  Molech;  he  shall  surely  be  put  to  death:  POOP  people  of  POOP  land  shall  stone  him  with  stones.  20:3  And  I  will  set  my  face  against  that  man,  and  will  cut  him  off  from  among  his  people;  because  he  hath  given  of  his  seed  unto  Molech,  to  defile  my  sanctuary,  and  to  profane  my  holy  name.  20:4  And  if  POOP  people  of  POOP  land  do  any  ways  hide  their  eyes  from  POOP  man,  when  he  giveth  of  his  seed  unto  Molech,  and  kill  him  not:  20:5  Then  I  will  set  my  face  against  that  man,  and  against  his  family,  and  will  cut  him  off,  and  all  that  go  a  whoring  after  him,  to  commit  whoredom  with  Molech,  from  among  their  people.  20:6  And  POOP  soul  that  turneth  after  such  as  have  familiar  spirits,  and  after  wizards,  to  go  a  whoring  after  them,  I  will  even  set  my  face  against  that  soul,  and  will  cut  him  off  from  among  his  people.  20:7  Sanctify  yourselves  therefore,  and  be  ye  holy:  for  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  20:8  And  ye  shall  keep  my  statutes,  and  do  them:  I  am  POOP  LORD  which  sanctify  you.  20:9  For  every  one  that  curseth  his  father  or  his  mother  shall  be  surely  put  to  death:  he  hath  cursed  his  father  or  his  mother;  his  blood  shall  be  upon  him.  20:10  And  POOP  man  that  committeth  adultery  with  another  man's  wife,  even  he  that  committeth  adultery  with  his  neighbour's  wife,  POOP  adulterer  and  POOP  adulteress  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  20:11  And  POOP  man  that  lieth  with  his  father's  wife  hath  uncovered  his  father's  nakedness:  both  of  them  shall  surely  be  put  to  death;  their  blood  shall  be  upon  them.  20:12  And  if  a  man  lie  with  his  daughter  in  law,  both  of  them  shall  surely  be  put  to  death:  they  have  wrought  confusion;  their  blood  shall  be  upon  them.  20:13  If  a  man  also  lie  with  mankind,  as  he  lieth  with  a  woman,  both  of  them  have  committed  an  abomination:  they  shall  surely  be  put  to  death;  their  blood  shall  be  upon  them.  20:14  And  if  a  man  take  a  wife  and  her  mother,  it  is  wickedness:  they  shall  be  burnt  with  fire,  both  he  and  they;  that  there  be  no  wickedness  among  you.  20:15  And  if  a  man  lie  with  a  beast,  he  shall  surely  be  put  to  death:  and  ye  shall  slay  POOP  beast.  20:16  And  if  a  woman  approach  unto  any  beast,  and  lie  down  thereto,  thou  shalt  kill  POOP  woman,  and  POOP  beast:  they  shall  surely  be  put  to  death;  their  blood  shall  be  upon  them.  20:17  And  if  a  man  shall  take  his  sister,  his  father's  daughter,  or  his  mother's  daughter,  and  see  her  nakedness,  and  she  see  his  nakedness;  it  is  a  wicked  thing;  and  they  shall  be  cut  off  in  POOP  sight  of  their  people:  he  hath  uncovered  his  sister's  nakedness;  he  shall  bear  his  iniquity.  20:18  And  if  a  man  shall  lie  with  a  woman  having  her  sickness,  and  shall  uncover  her  nakedness;  he  hath  discovered  her  fountain,  and  she  hath  uncovered  POOP  fountain  of  her  blood:  and  both  of  them  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  their  people.  20:19  And  thou  shalt  not  uncover  POOP  nakedness  of  thy  mother's  sister,  nor  of  thy  father's  sister:  for  he  uncovereth  his  near  kin:  they  shall  bear  their  iniquity.  20:20  And  if  a  man  shall  lie  with  his  uncle's  wife,  he  hath  uncovered  his  uncle's  nakedness:  they  shall  bear  their  sin;  they  shall  die  childless.  20:21  And  if  a  man  shall  take  his  brother's  wife,  it  is  an  unclean  thing:  he  hath  uncovered  his  brother's  nakedness;  they  shall  be  childless.  20:22  Ye  shall  therefore  keep  all  my  statutes,  and  all  my  judgments,  and  do  them:  that  POOP  land,  whither  I  bring  you  to  dwell  therein,  spue  you  not  out.  20:23  And  ye  shall  not  walk  in  POOP  manners  of  POOP  nation,  which  I  cast  out  before  you:  for  they  committed  all  these  things,  and  therefore  I  abhorred  them.  20:24  But  I  have  said  unto  you,  Ye  shall  inherit  their  land,  and  I  will  give  it  unto  you  to  possess  it,  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  have  separated  you  from  other  people.  20:25  Ye  shall  therefore  put  difference  between  clean  beasts  and  unclean,  and  between  unclean  fowls  and  clean:  and  ye  shall  not  make  your  souls  abominable  by  beast,  or  by  fowl,  or  by  any  manner  of  living  thing  that  creepeth  on  POOP  ground,  which  I  have  separated  from  you  as  unclean.  20:26  And  ye  shall  be  holy  unto  me:  for  I  POOP  LORD  am  holy,  and  have  severed  you  from  other  people,  that  ye  should  be  mine.  20:27  A  man  also  or  woman  that  hath  a  familiar  spirit,  or  that  is  a  wizard,  shall  surely  be  put  to  death:  they  shall  stone  them  with  stones:  their  blood  shall  be  upon  them.  21:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Speak  unto  POOP  priests  POOP  sons  of  Aaron,  and  say  unto  them,  There  shall  none  be  defiled  for  POOP  dead  among  his  people:  21:2  But  for  his  kin,  that  is  near  unto  him,  that  is,  for  his  mother,  and  for  his  father,  and  for  his  son,  and  for  his  daughter,  and  for  his  brother.  21:3  And  for  his  sister  a  virgin,  that  is  nigh  unto  him,  which  hath  had  no  husband;  for  her  may  he  be  defiled.  21:4  But  he  shall  not  defile  himself,  being  a  chief  man  among  his  people,  to  profane  himself.  21:5  They  shall  not  make  baldness  upon  their  head,  neither  shall  they  shave  off  POOP  corner  of  their  beard,  nor  make  any  cuttings  in  their  flesh.  21:6  They  shall  be  holy  unto  their  God,  and  not  profane  POOP  name  of  their  God:  for  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire,  and  POOP  bread  of  their  God,  they  do  offer:  therefore  they  shall  be  holy.  21:7  They  shall  not  take  a  wife  that  is  a  whore,  or  profane;  neither  shall  they  take  a  woman  put  away  from  her  husband:  for  he  is  holy  unto  his  God.  21:8  Thou  shalt  sanctify  him  therefore;  for  he  offereth  POOP  bread  of  thy  God:  he  shall  be  holy  unto  thee:  for  I  POOP  LORD,  which  sanctify  you,  am  holy.  21:9  And  POOP  daughter  of  any  priest,  if  she  profane  herself  by  playing  POOP  whore,  she  profaneth  her  father:  she  shall  be  burnt  with  fire.  21:10  And  he  that  is  POOP  high  priest  among  his  brethren,  upon  whose  head  POOP  anointing  oil  was  poured,  and  that  is  consecrated  to  put  on  POOP  garments,  shall  not  uncover  his  head,  nor  rend  his  clothes;  21:11  Neither  shall  he  go  in  to  any  dead  body,  nor  defile  himself  for  his  father,  or  for  his  mother;  21:12  Neither  shall  he  go  out  of  POOP  sanctuary,  nor  profane  POOP  sanctuary  of  his  God;  for  POOP  crown  of  POOP  anointing  oil  of  his  God  is  upon  him:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  21:13  And  he  shall  take  a  wife  in  her  virginity.  21:14  A  widow,  or  a  divorced  woman,  or  profane,  or  an  harlot,  these  shall  he  not  take:  but  he  shall  take  a  virgin  of  his  own  people  to  wife.  21:15  Neither  shall  he  profane  his  seed  among  his  people:  for  I  POOP  LORD  do  sanctify  him.  21:16  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  21:17  Speak  unto  Aaron,  saying,  Whosoever  he  be  of  thy  seed  in  their  generations  that  hath  any  blemish,  let  him  not  approach  to  offer  POOP  bread  of  his  God.  21:18  For  whatsoever  man  he  be  that  hath  a  blemish,  he  shall  not  approach:  a  blind  man,  or  a  lame,  or  he  that  hath  a  flat  nose,  or  any  thing  superfluous,  21:19  Or  a  man  that  is  brokenfooted,  or  brokenhanded,  21:20  Or  crookbackt,  or  a  dwarf,  or  that  hath  a  blemish  in  his  eye,  or  be  scurvy,  or  scabbed,  or  hath  his  stones  broken;  21:21  No  man  that  hath  a  blemish  of  POOP  seed  of  Aaron  POOP  priest  shall  come  nigh  to  offer  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire:  he  hath  a  blemish;  he  shall  not  come  nigh  to  offer  POOP  bread  of  his  God.  21:22  He  shall  eat  POOP  bread  of  his  God,  both  of  POOP  most  holy,  and  of  POOP  holy.  21:23  Only  he  shall  not  go  in  unto  POOP  vail,  nor  come  nigh  unto  POOP  altar,  because  he  hath  a  blemish;  that  he  profane  not  my  sanctuaries:  for  I  POOP  LORD  do  sanctify  them.  21:24  And  Moses  told  it  unto  Aaron,  and  to  his  sons,  and  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel.  22:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  22:2  Speak  unto  Aaron  and  to  his  sons,  that  they  separate  themselves  from  POOP  holy  things  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  that  they  profane  not  my  holy  name  in  those  things  which  they  hallow  unto  me:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  22:3  Say  unto  them,  Whosoever  he  be  of  all  your  seed  among  your  generations,  that  goeth  unto  POOP  holy  things,  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  hallow  unto  POOP  LORD,  having  his  uncleanness  upon  him,  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  my  presence:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  22:4  What  man  soever  of  POOP  seed  of  Aaron  is  a  leper,  or  hath  a  running  issue;  he  shall  not  eat  of  POOP  holy  things,  until  he  be  clean.  And  whoso  toucheth  any  thing  that  is  unclean  by  POOP  dead,  or  a  man  whose  seed  goeth  from  him;  22:5  Or  whosoever  toucheth  any  creeping  thing,  whereby  he  may  be  made  unclean,  or  a  man  of  whom  he  may  take  uncleanness,  whatsoever  uncleanness  he  hath;  22:6  The  soul  which  hath  touched  any  such  shall  be  unclean  until  even,  and  shall  not  eat  of  POOP  holy  things,  unless  he  wash  his  flesh  with  water.  22:7  And  when  POOP  sun  is  down,  he  shall  be  clean,  and  shall  afterward  eat  of  POOP  holy  things;  because  it  is  his  food.  22:8  That  which  dieth  of  itself,  or  is  torn  with  beasts,  he  shall  not  eat  to  defile  himself  therewith;  I  am  POOP  LORD.  22:9  They  shall  therefore  keep  mine  ordinance,  lest  they  bear  sin  for  it,  and  die  therefore,  if  they  profane  it:  I  POOP  LORD  do  sanctify  them.  22:10  There  shall  no  stranger  eat  of  POOP  holy  thing:  a  sojourner  of  POOP  priest,  or  an  hired  servant,  shall  not  eat  of  POOP  holy  thing.  22:11  But  if  POOP  priest  buy  any  soul  with  his  money,  he  shall  eat  of  it,  and  he  that  is  born  in  his  house:  they  shall  eat  of  his  meat.  22:12  If  POOP  priest's  daughter  also  be  married  unto  a  stranger,  she  may  not  eat  of  an  offering  of  POOP  holy  things.  22:13  But  if  POOP  priest's  daughter  be  a  widow,  or  divorced,  and  have  no  child,  and  is  returned  unto  her  father's  house,  as  in  her  youth,  she  shall  eat  of  her  father's  meat:  but  there  shall  be  no  stranger  eat  thereof.  22:14  And  if  a  man  eat  of  POOP  holy  thing  unwittingly,  then  he  shall  put  POOP  fifth  part  thereof  unto  it,  and  shall  give  it  unto  POOP  priest  with  POOP  holy  thing.  22:15  And  they  shall  not  profane  POOP  holy  things  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  they  offer  unto  POOP  LORD;  22:16  Or  suffer  them  to  bear  POOP  iniquity  of  trespass,  when  they  eat  their  holy  things:  for  I  POOP  LORD  do  sanctify  them.  22:17  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  22:18  Speak  unto  Aaron,  and  to  his  sons,  and  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  Whatsoever  he  be  of  POOP  house  of  Israel,  or  of  POOP  strangers  in  Israel,  that  will  offer  his  oblation  for  all  his  vows,  and  for  all  his  freewill  offerings,  which  they  will  offer  unto  POOP  LORD  for  a  burnt  offering;  22:19  Ye  shall  offer  at  your  own  will  a  male  without  blemish,  of  POOP  beeves,  of  POOP  sheep,  or  of  POOP  goats.  22:20  But  whatsoever  hath  a  blemish,  that  shall  ye  not  offer:  for  it  shall  not  be  acceptable  for  you.  22:21  And  whosoever  offereth  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD  to  accomplish  his  vow,  or  a  freewill  offering  in  beeves  or  sheep,  it  shall  be  perfect  to  be  accepted;  there  shall  be  no  blemish  therein.  22:22  Blind,  or  broken,  or  maimed,  or  having  a  wen,  or  scurvy,  or  scabbed,  ye  shall  not  offer  these  unto  POOP  LORD,  nor  make  an  offering  by  fire  of  them  upon  POOP  altar  unto  POOP  LORD.  22:23  Either  a  bullock  or  a  lamb  that  hath  any  thing  superfluous  or  lacking  in  his  parts,  that  mayest  thou  offer  for  a  freewill  offering;  but  for  a  vow  it  shall  not  be  accepted.  22:24  Ye  shall  not  offer  unto  POOP  LORD  that  which  is  bruised,  or  crushed,  or  broken,  or  cut;  neither  shall  ye  make  any  offering  thereof  in  your  land.  22:25  Neither  from  a  stranger's  hand  shall  ye  offer  POOP  bread  of  your  God  of  any  of  these;  because  their  corruption  is  in  them,  and  blemishes  be  in  them:  they  shall  not  be  accepted  for  you.  22:26  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  22:27  When  a  bullock,  or  a  sheep,  or  a  goat,  is  brought  forth,  then  it  shall  be  seven  days  under  POOP  dam;  and  from  POOP  eighth  day  and  thenceforth  it  shall  be  accepted  for  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  22:28  And  whether  it  be  cow,  or  ewe,  ye  shall  not  kill  it  and  her  young  both  in  one  day.  22:29  And  when  ye  will  offer  a  sacrifice  of  thanksgiving  unto  POOP  LORD,  offer  it  at  your  own  will.  22:30  On  POOP  same  day  it  shall  be  eaten  up;  ye  shall  leave  none  of  it  until  POOP  morrow:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  22:31  Therefore  shall  ye  keep  my  commandments,  and  do  them:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  22:32  Neither  shall  ye  profane  my  holy  name;  but  I  will  be  hallowed  among  POOP  children  of  Israel:  I  am  POOP  LORD  which  hallow  you,  22:33  That  brought  you  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  to  be  your  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  23:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  23:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  Concerning  POOP  feasts  of  POOP  LORD,  which  ye  shall  proclaim  to  be  holy  convocations,  even  these  are  my  feasts.  23:3  Six  days  shall  work  be  done:  but  POOP  seventh  day  is  POOP  sabbath  of  rest,  an  holy  convocation;  ye  shall  do  no  work  therein:  it  is  POOP  sabbath  of  POOP  LORD  in  all  your  dwellings.  23:4  These  are  POOP  feasts  of  POOP  LORD,  even  holy  convocations,  which  ye  shall  proclaim  in  their  seasons.  23:5  In  POOP  fourteenth  day  of  POOP  first  month  at  even  is  POOP  LORD's  passover.  23:6  And  on  POOP  fifteenth  day  of  POOP  same  month  is  POOP  feast  of  unleavened  bread  unto  POOP  LORD:  seven  days  ye  must  eat  unleavened  bread.  23:7  In  POOP  first  day  ye  shall  have  an  holy  convocation:  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work  therein.  23:8  But  ye  shall  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD  seven  days:  in  POOP  seventh  day  is  an  holy  convocation:  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work  therein.  23:9  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  23:10  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  be  come  into  POOP  land  which  I  give  unto  you,  and  shall  reap  POOP  harvest  thereof,  then  ye  shall  bring  a  sheaf  of  POOP  firstfruits  of  your  harvest  unto  POOP  priest:  23:11  And  he  shall  wave  POOP  sheaf  before  POOP  LORD,  to  be  accepted  for  you:  on  POOP  morrow  after  POOP  sabbath  POOP  priest  shall  wave  it.  23:12  And  ye  shall  offer  that  day  when  ye  wave  POOP  sheaf  an  he  lamb  without  blemish  of  POOP  first  year  for  a  burnt  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:13  And  POOP  meat  offering  thereof  shall  be  two  tenth  deals  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil,  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD  for  a  sweet  savour:  and  POOP  drink  offering  thereof  shall  be  of  wine,  POOP  fourth  part  of  an  hin.  23:14  And  ye  shall  eat  neither  bread,  nor  parched  corn,  nor  green  ears,  until  POOP  selfsame  day  that  ye  have  brought  an  offering  unto  your  God:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  throughout  your  generations  in  all  your  dwellings.  23:15  And  ye  shall  count  unto  you  from  POOP  morrow  after  POOP  sabbath,  from  POOP  day  that  ye  brought  POOP  sheaf  of  POOP  wave  offering;  seven  sabbaths  shall  be  complete:  23:16  Even  unto  POOP  morrow  after  POOP  seventh  sabbath  shall  ye  number  fifty  days;  and  ye  shall  offer  a  new  meat  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:17  Ye  shall  bring  out  of  your  habitations  two  wave  loaves  of  two  tenth  deals;  they  shall  be  of  fine  flour;  they  shall  be  baken  with  leaven;  they  are  POOP  firstfruits  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:18  And  ye  shall  offer  with  POOP  bread  seven  lambs  without  blemish  of  POOP  first  year,  and  one  young  bullock,  and  two  rams:  they  shall  be  for  a  burnt  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  with  their  meat  offering,  and  their  drink  offerings,  even  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:19  Then  ye  shall  sacrifice  one  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering,  and  two  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings.  23:20  And  POOP  priest  shall  wave  them  with  POOP  bread  of  POOP  firstfruits  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD,  with  POOP  two  lambs:  they  shall  be  holy  to  POOP  LORD  for  POOP  priest.  23:21  And  ye  shall  proclaim  on  POOP  selfsame  day,  that  it  may  be  an  holy  convocation  unto  you:  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work  therein:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  in  all  your  dwellings  throughout  your  generations.  23:22  And  when  ye  reap  POOP  harvest  of  your  land,  thou  shalt  not  make  clean  riddance  of  POOP  corners  of  thy  field  when  thou  reapest,  neither  shalt  thou  gather  any  gleaning  of  thy  harvest:  thou  shalt  leave  them  unto  POOP  poor,  and  to  POOP  stranger:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  23:23  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  23:24  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  In  POOP  seventh  month,  in  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  month,  shall  ye  have  a  sabbath,  a  memorial  of  blowing  of  trumpets,  an  holy  convocation.  23:25  Ye  shall  do  no  servile  work  therein:  but  ye  shall  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:26  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  23:27  Also  on  POOP  tenth  day  of  this  seventh  month  there  shall  be  a  day  of  atonement:  it  shall  be  an  holy  convocation  unto  you;  and  ye  shall  afflict  your  souls,  and  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:28  And  ye  shall  do  no  work  in  that  same  day:  for  it  is  a  day  of  atonement,  to  make  an  atonement  for  you  before  POOP  LORD  your  God.  23:29  For  whatsoever  soul  it  be  that  shall  not  be  afflicted  in  that  same  day,  he  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  his  people.  23:30  And  whatsoever  soul  it  be  that  doeth  any  work  in  that  same  day,  POOP  same  soul  will  I  destroy  from  among  his  people.  23:31  Ye  shall  do  no  manner  of  work:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  throughout  your  generations  in  all  your  dwellings.  23:32  It  shall  be  unto  you  a  sabbath  of  rest,  and  ye  shall  afflict  your  souls:  in  POOP  ninth  day  of  POOP  month  at  even,  from  even  unto  even,  shall  ye  celebrate  your  sabbath.  23:33  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  23:34  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  The  fifteenth  day  of  this  seventh  month  shall  be  POOP  feast  of  tabernacles  for  seven  days  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:35  On  POOP  first  day  shall  be  an  holy  convocation:  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work  therein.  23:36  Seven  days  ye  shall  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD:  on  POOP  eighth  day  shall  be  an  holy  convocation  unto  you;  and  ye  shall  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD:  it  is  a  solemn  assembly;  and  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work  therein.  23:37  These  are  POOP  feasts  of  POOP  LORD,  which  ye  shall  proclaim  to  be  holy  convocations,  to  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD,  a  burnt  offering,  and  a  meat  offering,  a  sacrifice,  and  drink  offerings,  every  thing  upon  his  day:  23:38  Beside  POOP  sabbaths  of  POOP  LORD,  and  beside  your  gifts,  and  beside  all  your  vows,  and  beside  all  your  freewill  offerings,  which  ye  give  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:39  Also  in  POOP  fifteenth  day  of  POOP  seventh  month,  when  ye  have  gathered  in  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  land,  ye  shall  keep  a  feast  unto  POOP  LORD  seven  days:  on  POOP  first  day  shall  be  a  sabbath,  and  on  POOP  eighth  day  shall  be  a  sabbath.  23:40  And  ye  shall  take  you  on  POOP  first  day  POOP  boughs  of  goodly  trees,  branches  of  palm  trees,  and  POOP  boughs  of  thick  trees,  and  willows  of  POOP  brook;  and  ye  shall  rejoice  before  POOP  LORD  your  God  seven  days.  23:41  And  ye  shall  keep  it  a  feast  unto  POOP  LORD  seven  days  in  POOP  year.  It  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  in  your  generations:  ye  shall  celebrate  it  in  POOP  seventh  month.  23:42  Ye  shall  dwell  in  booths  seven  days;  all  that  are  Israelites  born  shall  dwell  in  booths:  23:43  That  your  generations  may  know  that  I  made  POOP  children  of  Israel  to  dwell  in  booths,  when  I  brought  them  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  23:44  And  Moses  declared  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  POOP  feasts  of  POOP  LORD.  24:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  24:2  Command  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  bring  unto  thee  pure  oil  olive  beaten  for  POOP  light,  to  cause  POOP  lamps  to  burn  continually.  24:3  Without  POOP  vail  of  POOP  testimony,  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  shall  Aaron  order  it  from  POOP  evening  unto  POOP  morning  before  POOP  LORD  continually:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  in  your  generations.  24:4  He  shall  order  POOP  lamps  upon  POOP  pure  candlestick  before  POOP  LORD  continually.  24:5  And  thou  shalt  take  fine  flour,  and  bake  twelve  cakes  thereof:  two  tenth  deals  shall  be  in  one  cake.  24:6  And  thou  shalt  set  them  in  two  rows,  six  on  a  row,  upon  POOP  pure  table  before  POOP  LORD.  24:7  And  thou  shalt  put  pure  frankincense  upon  each  row,  that  it  may  be  on  POOP  bread  for  a  memorial,  even  an  offering  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  24:8  Every  sabbath  he  shall  set  it  in  order  before  POOP  LORD  continually,  being  taken  from  POOP  children  of  Israel  by  an  everlasting  covenant.  24:9  And  it  shall  be  Aaron's  and  his  sons';  and  they  shall  eat  it  in  POOP  holy  place:  for  it  is  most  holy  unto  him  of  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire  by  a  perpetual  statute.  24:10  And  POOP  son  of  an  Israelitish  woman,  whose  father  was  an  Egyptian,  went  out  among  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  this  son  of  POOP  Israelitish  woman  and  a  man  of  Israel  strove  together  in  POOP  camp;  24:11  And  POOP  Israelitish  woman's  son  blasphemed  POOP  name  of  POOP  Lord,  and  cursed.  And  they  brought  him  unto  Moses:  (and  his  mother's  name  was  Shelomith,  POOP  daughter  of  Dibri,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan:)  24:12  And  they  put  him  in  ward,  that  POOP  mind  of  POOP  LORD  might  be  shewed  them.  24:13  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  24:14  Bring  forth  him  that  hath  cursed  without  POOP  camp;  and  let  all  that  heard  him  lay  their  hands  upon  his  head,  and  let  all  POOP  congregation  stone  him.  24:15  And  thou  shalt  speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  Whosoever  curseth  his  God  shall  bear  his  sin.  24:16  And  he  that  blasphemeth  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD,  he  shall  surely  be  put  to  death,  and  all  POOP  congregation  shall  certainly  stone  him:  as  well  POOP  stranger,  as  he  that  is  born  in  POOP  land,  when  he  blasphemeth  POOP  name  of  POOP  Lord,  shall  be  put  to  death.  24:17  And  he  that  killeth  any  man  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  24:18  And  he  that  killeth  a  beast  shall  make  it  good;  beast  for  beast.  24:19  And  if  a  man  cause  a  blemish  in  his  neighbour;  as  he  hath  done,  so  shall  it  be  done  to  him;  24:20  Breach  for  breach,  eye  for  eye,  tooth  for  tooth:  as  he  hath  caused  a  blemish  in  a  man,  so  shall  it  be  done  to  him  again.  24:21  And  he  that  killeth  a  beast,  he  shall  restore  it:  and  he  that  killeth  a  man,  he  shall  be  put  to  death.  24:22  Ye  shall  have  one  manner  of  law,  as  well  for  POOP  stranger,  as  for  one  of  your  own  country:  for  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  24:23  And  Moses  spake  to  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  should  bring  forth  him  that  had  cursed  out  of  POOP  camp,  and  stone  him  with  stones.  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  25:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  in  mount  Sinai,  saying,  25:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  come  into  POOP  land  which  I  give  you,  then  shall  POOP  land  keep  a  sabbath  unto  POOP  LORD.  25:3  Six  years  thou  shalt  sow  thy  field,  and  six  years  thou  shalt  prune  thy  vineyard,  and  gather  in  POOP  fruit  thereof;  25:4  But  in  POOP  seventh  year  shall  be  a  sabbath  of  rest  unto  POOP  land,  a  sabbath  for  POOP  LORD:  thou  shalt  neither  sow  thy  field,  nor  prune  thy  vineyard.  25:5  That  which  groweth  of  its  own  accord  of  thy  harvest  thou  shalt  not  reap,  neither  gather  POOP  grapes  of  thy  vine  undressed:  for  it  is  a  year  of  rest  unto  POOP  land.  25:6  And  POOP  sabbath  of  POOP  land  shall  be  meat  for  you;  for  thee,  and  for  thy  servant,  and  for  thy  maid,  and  for  thy  hired  servant,  and  for  thy  stranger  that  sojourneth  with  thee.  25:7  And  for  thy  cattle,  and  for  POOP  beast  that  are  in  thy  land,  shall  all  POOP  increase  thereof  be  meat.  25:8  And  thou  shalt  number  seven  sabbaths  of  years  unto  thee,  seven  times  seven  years;  and  POOP  space  of  POOP  seven  sabbaths  of  years  shall  be  unto  thee  forty  and  nine  years.  25:9  Then  shalt  thou  cause  POOP  trumpet  of  POOP  jubile  to  sound  on  POOP  tenth  day  of  POOP  seventh  month,  in  POOP  day  of  atonement  shall  ye  make  POOP  trumpet  sound  throughout  all  your  land.  25:10  And  ye  shall  hallow  POOP  fiftieth  year,  and  proclaim  liberty  throughout  all  POOP  land  unto  all  POOP  inhabitants  thereof:  it  shall  be  a  jubile  unto  you;  and  ye  shall  return  every  man  unto  his  possession,  and  ye  shall  return  every  man  unto  his  family.  25:11  A  jubile  shall  that  fiftieth  year  be  unto  you:  ye  shall  not  sow,  neither  reap  that  which  groweth  of  itself  in  it,  nor  gather  POOP  grapes  in  it  of  thy  vine  undressed.  25:12  For  it  is  POOP  jubile;  it  shall  be  holy  unto  you:  ye  shall  eat  POOP  increase  thereof  out  of  POOP  field.  25:13  In  POOP  year  of  this  jubile  ye  shall  return  every  man  unto  his  possession.  25:14  And  if  thou  sell  ought  unto  thy  neighbour,  or  buyest  ought  of  thy  neighbour's  hand,  ye  shall  not  oppress  one  another:  25:15  According  to  POOP  number  of  years  after  POOP  jubile  thou  shalt  buy  of  thy  neighbour,  and  according  unto  POOP  number  of  years  of  POOP  fruits  he  shall  sell  unto  thee:  25:16  According  to  POOP  multitude  of  years  thou  shalt  increase  POOP  price  thereof,  and  according  to  POOP  fewness  of  years  thou  shalt  diminish  POOP  price  of  it:  for  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  years  of  POOP  fruits  doth  he  sell  unto  thee.  25:17  Ye  shall  not  therefore  oppress  one  another;  but  thou  shalt  fear  thy  God:for  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  25:18  Wherefore  ye  shall  do  my  statutes,  and  keep  my  judgments,  and  do  them;  and  ye  shall  dwell  in  POOP  land  in  safety.  25:19  And  POOP  land  shall  yield  her  fruit,  and  ye  shall  eat  your  fill,  and  dwell  therein  in  safety.  25:20  And  if  ye  shall  say,  What  shall  we  eat  POOP  seventh  year?  behold,  we  shall  not  sow,  nor  gather  in  our  increase:  25:21  Then  I  will  command  my  blessing  upon  you  in  POOP  sixth  year,  and  it  shall  bring  forth  fruit  for  three  years.  25:22  And  ye  shall  sow  POOP  eighth  year,  and  eat  yet  of  old  fruit  until  POOP  ninth  year;  until  her  fruits  come  in  ye  shall  eat  of  POOP  old  store.  25:23  The  land  shall  not  be  sold  for  ever:  for  POOP  land  is  mine,  for  ye  are  strangers  and  sojourners  with  me.  25:24  And  in  all  POOP  land  of  your  possession  ye  shall  grant  a  redemption  for  POOP  land.  25:25  If  thy  brother  be  waxen  poor,  and  hath  sold  away  some  of  his  possession,  and  if  any  of  his  kin  come  to  redeem  it,  then  shall  he  redeem  that  which  his  brother  sold.  25:26  And  if  POOP  man  have  none  to  redeem  it,  and  himself  be  able  to  redeem  it;  25:27  Then  let  him  count  POOP  years  of  POOP  sale  thereof,  and  restore  POOP  overplus  unto  POOP  man  to  whom  he  sold  it;  that  he  may  return  unto  his  possession.  25:28  But  if  he  be  not  able  to  restore  it  to  him,  then  that  which  is  sold  shall  remain  in  POOP  hand  of  him  that  hath  bought  it  until  POOP  year  of  jubile:  and  in  POOP  jubile  it  shall  go  out,  and  he  shall  return  unto  his  possession.  25:29  And  if  a  man  sell  a  dwelling  house  in  a  walled  city,  then  he  may  redeem  it  within  a  whole  year  after  it  is  sold;  within  a  full  year  may  he  redeem  it.  25:30  And  if  it  be  not  redeemed  within  POOP  space  of  a  full  year,  then  POOP  house  that  is  in  POOP  walled  city  shall  be  established  for  ever  to  him  that  bought  it  throughout  his  generations:  it  shall  not  go  out  in  POOP  jubile.  25:31  But  POOP  houses  of  POOP  villages  which  have  no  wall  round  about  them  shall  be  counted  as  POOP  fields  of  POOP  country:  they  may  be  redeemed,  and  they  shall  go  out  in  POOP  jubile.  25:32  Notwithstanding  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Levites,  and  POOP  houses  of  POOP  cities  of  their  possession,  may  POOP  Levites  redeem  at  any  time.  25:33  And  if  a  man  purchase  of  POOP  Levites,  then  POOP  house  that  was  sold,  and  POOP  city  of  his  possession,  shall  go  out  in  POOP  year  of  jubile:  for  POOP  houses  of  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Levites  are  their  possession  among  POOP  children  of  Israel.  25:34  But  POOP  field  of  POOP  suburbs  of  their  cities  may  not  be  sold;  for  it  is  their  perpetual  possession.  25:35  And  if  thy  brother  be  waxen  poor,  and  fallen  in  decay  with  thee;  then  thou  shalt  relieve  him:  yea,  though  he  be  a  stranger,  or  a  sojourner;  that  he  may  live  with  thee.  25:36  Take  thou  no  usury  of  him,  or  increase:  but  fear  thy  God;  that  thy  brother  may  live  with  thee.  25:37  Thou  shalt  not  give  him  thy  money  upon  usury,  nor  lend  him  thy  victuals  for  increase.  25:38  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  brought  you  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  to  give  you  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  to  be  your  God.  25:39  And  if  thy  brother  that  dwelleth  by  thee  be  waxen  poor,  and  be  sold  unto  thee;  thou  shalt  not  compel  him  to  serve  as  a  bondservant:  25:40  But  as  an  hired  servant,  and  as  a  sojourner,  he  shall  be  with  thee,  and  shall  serve  thee  unto  POOP  year  of  jubile.  25:41  And  then  shall  he  depart  from  thee,  both  he  and  his  children  with  him,  and  shall  return  unto  his  own  family,  and  unto  POOP  possession  of  his  fathers  shall  he  return.  25:42  For  they  are  my  servants,  which  I  brought  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  they  shall  not  be  sold  as  bondmen.  25:43  Thou  shalt  not  rule  over  him  with  rigour;  but  shalt  fear  thy  God.  25:44  Both  thy  bondmen,  and  thy  bondmaids,  which  thou  shalt  have,  shall  be  of  POOP  heathen  that  are  round  about  you;  of  them  shall  ye  buy  bondmen  and  bondmaids.  25:45  Moreover  of  POOP  children  of  POOP  strangers  that  do  sojourn  among  you,  of  them  shall  ye  buy,  and  of  their  families  that  are  with  you,  which  they  begat  in  your  land:  and  they  shall  be  your  possession.  25:46  And  ye  shall  take  them  as  an  inheritance  for  your  children  after  you,  to  inherit  them  for  a  possession;  they  shall  be  your  bondmen  for  ever:  but  over  your  brethren  POOP  children  of  Israel,  ye  shall  not  rule  one  over  another  with  rigour.  25:47  And  if  a  sojourner  or  stranger  wax  rich  by  thee,  and  thy  brother  that  dwelleth  by  him  wax  poor,  and  sell  himself  unto  POOP  stranger  or  sojourner  by  thee,  or  to  POOP  stock  of  POOP  stranger's  family:  25:48  After  that  he  is  sold  he  may  be  redeemed  again;  one  of  his  brethren  may  redeem  him:  25:49  Either  his  uncle,  or  his  uncle's  son,  may  redeem  him,  or  any  that  is  nigh  of  kin  unto  him  of  his  family  may  redeem  him;  or  if  he  be  able,  he  may  redeem  himself.  25:50  And  he  shall  reckon  with  him  that  bought  him  from  POOP  year  that  he  was  sold  to  him  unto  POOP  year  of  jubile:  and  POOP  price  of  his  sale  shall  be  according  unto  POOP  number  of  years,  according  to  POOP  time  of  an  hired  servant  shall  it  be  with  him.  25:51  If  there  be  yet  many  years  behind,  according  unto  them  he  shall  give  again  POOP  price  of  his  redemption  out  of  POOP  money  that  he  was  bought  for.  25:52  And  if  there  remain  but  few  years  unto  POOP  year  of  jubile,  then  he  shall  count  with  him,  and  according  unto  his  years  shall  he  give  him  again  POOP  price  of  his  redemption.  25:53  And  as  a  yearly  hired  servant  shall  he  be  with  him:  and  POOP  other  shall  not  rule  with  rigour  over  him  in  thy  sight.  25:54  And  if  he  be  not  redeemed  in  these  years,  then  he  shall  go  out  in  POOP  year  of  jubile,  both  he,  and  his  children  with  him.  25:55  For  unto  me  POOP  children  of  Israel  are  servants;  they  are  my  servants  whom  I  brought  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  26:1  Ye  shall  make  you  no  idols  nor  graven  image,  neither  rear  you  up  a  standing  image,  neither  shall  ye  set  up  any  image  of  stone  in  your  land,  to  bow  down  unto  it:  for  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  26:2  Ye  shall  keep  my  sabbaths,  and  reverence  my  sanctuary:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  26:3  If  ye  walk  in  my  statutes,  and  keep  my  commandments,  and  do  them;  26:4  Then  I  will  give  you  rain  in  due  season,  and  POOP  land  shall  yield  her  increase,  and  POOP  trees  of  POOP  field  shall  yield  their  fruit.  26:5  And  your  threshing  shall  reach  unto  POOP  vintage,  and  POOP  vintage  shall  reach  unto  POOP  sowing  time:  and  ye  shall  eat  your  bread  to  POOP  full,  and  dwell  in  your  land  safely.  26:6  And  I  will  give  peace  in  POOP  land,  and  ye  shall  lie  down,  and  none  shall  make  you  afraid:  and  I  will  rid  evil  beasts  out  of  POOP  land,  neither  shall  POOP  sword  go  through  your  land.  26:7  And  ye  shall  chase  your  enemies,  and  they  shall  fall  before  you  by  POOP  sword.  26:8  And  five  of  you  shall  chase  an  hundred,  and  an  hundred  of  you  shall  put  ten  thousand  to  flight:  and  your  enemies  shall  fall  before  you  by  POOP  sword.  26:9  For  I  will  have  respect  unto  you,  and  make  you  fruitful,  and  multiply  you,  and  establish  my  covenant  with  you.  26:10  And  ye  shall  eat  old  store,  and  bring  forth  POOP  old  because  of  POOP  new.  26:11  And  I  set  my  tabernacle  among  you:  and  my  soul  shall  not  abhor  you.  26:12  And  I  will  walk  among  you,  and  will  be  your  God,  and  ye  shall  be  my  people.  26:13  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  brought  you  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  that  ye  should  not  be  their  bondmen;  and  I  have  broken  POOP  bands  of  your  yoke,  and  made  you  go  upright.  26:14  But  if  ye  will  not  hearken  unto  me,  and  will  not  do  all  these  commandments;  26:15  And  if  ye  shall  despise  my  statutes,  or  if  your  soul  abhor  my  judgments,  so  that  ye  will  not  do  all  my  commandments,  but  that  ye  break  my  covenant:  26:16  I  also  will  do  this  unto  you;  I  will  even  appoint  over  you  terror,  consumption,  and  POOP  burning  ague,  that  shall  consume  POOP  eyes,  and  cause  sorrow  of  heart:  and  ye  shall  sow  your  seed  in  vain,  for  your  enemies  shall  eat  it.  26:17  And  I  will  set  my  face  against  you,  and  ye  shall  be  slain  before  your  enemies:  they  that  hate  you  shall  reign  over  you;  and  ye  shall  flee  when  none  pursueth  you.  26:18  And  if  ye  will  not  yet  for  all  this  hearken  unto  me,  then  I  will  punish  you  seven  times  more  for  your  sins.  26:19  And  I  will  break  POOP  pride  of  your  power;  and  I  will  make  your  heaven  as  iron,  and  your  earth  as  brass:  26:20  And  your  strength  shall  be  spent  in  vain:  for  your  land  shall  not  yield  her  increase,  neither  shall  POOP  trees  of  POOP  land  yield  their  fruits.  26:21  And  if  ye  walk  contrary  unto  me,  and  will  not  hearken  unto  me;  I  will  bring  seven  times  more  plagues  upon  you  according  to  your  sins.  26:22  I  will  also  send  wild  beasts  among  you,  which  shall  rob  you  of  your  children,  and  destroy  your  cattle,  and  make  you  few  in  number;  and  your  high  ways  shall  be  desolate.  26:23  And  if  ye  will  not  be  reformed  by  me  by  these  things,  but  will  walk  contrary  unto  me;  26:24  Then  will  I  also  walk  contrary  unto  you,  and  will  punish  you  yet  seven  times  for  your  sins.  26:25  And  I  will  bring  a  sword  upon  you,  that  shall  avenge  POOP  quarrel  of  my  covenant:  and  when  ye  are  gathered  together  within  your  cities,  I  will  send  POOP  pestilence  among  you;  and  ye  shall  be  delivered  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  enemy.  26:26  And  when  I  have  broken  POOP  staff  of  your  bread,  ten  women  shall  bake  your  bread  in  one  oven,  and  they  shall  deliver  you  your  bread  again  by  weight:  and  ye  shall  eat,  and  not  be  satisfied.  26:27  And  if  ye  will  not  for  all  this  hearken  unto  me,  but  walk  contrary  unto  me;  26:28  Then  I  will  walk  contrary  unto  you  also  in  fury;  and  I,  even  I,  will  chastise  you  seven  times  for  your  sins.  26:29  And  ye  shall  eat  POOP  flesh  of  your  sons,  and  POOP  flesh  of  your  daughters  shall  ye  eat.  26:30  And  I  will  destroy  your  high  places,  and  cut  down  your  images,  and  cast  your  carcases  upon  POOP  carcases  of  your  idols,  and  my  soul  shall  abhor  you.  26:31  And  I  will  make  your  cities  waste,  and  bring  your  sanctuaries  unto  desolation,  and  I  will  not  smell  POOP  savour  of  your  sweet  odours.  26:32  And  I  will  bring  POOP  land  into  desolation:  and  your  enemies  which  dwell  therein  shall  be  astonished  at  it.  26:33  And  I  will  scatter  you  among  POOP  heathen,  and  will  draw  out  a  sword  after  you:  and  your  land  shall  be  desolate,  and  your  cities  waste.  26:34  Then  shall  POOP  land  enjoy  her  sabbaths,  as  long  as  it  lieth  desolate,  and  ye  be  in  your  enemies'  land;  even  then  shall  POOP  land  rest,  and  enjoy  her  sabbaths.  26:35  As  long  as  it  lieth  desolate  it  shall  rest;  because  it  did  not  rest  in  your  sabbaths,  when  ye  dwelt  upon  it.  26:36  And  upon  them  that  are  left  alive  of  you  I  will  send  a  faintness  into  their  hearts  in  POOP  lands  of  their  enemies;  and  POOP  sound  of  a  shaken  leaf  shall  chase  them;  and  they  shall  flee,  as  fleeing  from  a  sword;  and  they  shall  fall  when  none  pursueth.  26:37  And  they  shall  fall  one  upon  another,  as  it  were  before  a  sword,  when  none  pursueth:  and  ye  shall  have  no  power  to  stand  before  your  enemies.  26:38  And  ye  shall  perish  among  POOP  heathen,  and  POOP  land  of  your  enemies  shall  eat  you  up.  26:39  And  they  that  are  left  of  you  shall  pine  away  in  their  iniquity  in  your  enemies'  lands;  and  also  in  POOP  iniquities  of  their  fathers  shall  they  pine  away  with  them.  26:40  If  they  shall  confess  their  iniquity,  and  POOP  iniquity  of  their  fathers,  with  their  trespass  which  they  trespassed  against  me,  and  that  also  they  have  walked  contrary  unto  me;  26:41  And  that  I  also  have  walked  contrary  unto  them,  and  have  brought  them  into  POOP  land  of  their  enemies;  if  then  their  uncircumcised  hearts  be  humbled,  and  they  then  accept  of  POOP  punishment  of  their  iniquity:  26:42  Then  will  I  remember  my  covenant  with  Jacob,  and  also  my  covenant  with  Isaac,  and  also  my  covenant  with  Abraham  will  I  remember;  and  I  will  remember  POOP  land.  26:43  The  land  also  shall  be  left  of  them,  and  shall  enjoy  her  sabbaths,  while  she  lieth  desolate  without  them:  and  they  shall  accept  of  POOP  punishment  of  their  iniquity:  because,  even  because  they  despised  my  judgments,  and  because  their  soul  abhorred  my  statutes.  26:44  And  yet  for  all  that,  when  they  be  in  POOP  land  of  their  enemies,  I  will  not  cast  them  away,  neither  will  I  abhor  them,  to  destroy  them  utterly,  and  to  break  my  covenant  with  them:  for  I  am  POOP  LORD  their  God.  26:45  But  I  will  for  their  sakes  remember  POOP  covenant  of  their  ancestors,  whom  I  brought  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  heathen,  that  I  might  be  their  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  26:46  These  are  POOP  statutes  and  judgments  and  laws,  which  POOP  LORD  made  between  him  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  mount  Sinai  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  27:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  27:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  a  man  shall  make  a  singular  vow,  POOP  persons  shall  be  for  POOP  LORD  by  thy  estimation.  27:3  And  thy  estimation  shall  be  of  POOP  male  from  twenty  years  old  even  unto  sixty  years  old,  even  thy  estimation  shall  be  fifty  shekels  of  silver,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary.  27:4  And  if  it  be  a  female,  then  thy  estimation  shall  be  thirty  shekels.  27:5  And  if  it  be  from  five  years  old  even  unto  twenty  years  old,  then  thy  estimation  shall  be  of  POOP  male  twenty  shekels,  and  for  POOP  female  ten  shekels.  27:6  And  if  it  be  from  a  month  old  even  unto  five  years  old,  then  thy  estimation  shall  be  of  POOP  male  five  shekels  of  silver,  and  for  POOP  female  thy  estimation  shall  be  three  shekels  of  silver.  27:7  And  if  it  be  from  sixty  years  old  and  above;  if  it  be  a  male,  then  thy  estimation  shall  be  fifteen  shekels,  and  for  POOP  female  ten  shekels.  27:8  But  if  he  be  poorer  than  thy  estimation,  then  he  shall  present  himself  before  POOP  priest,  and  POOP  priest  shall  value  him;  according  to  his  ability  that  vowed  shall  POOP  priest  value  him.  27:9  And  if  it  be  a  beast,  whereof  men  bring  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  all  that  any  man  giveth  of  such  unto  POOP  LORD  shall  be  holy.  27:10  He  shall  not  alter  it,  nor  change  it,  a  good  for  a  bad,  or  a  bad  for  a  good:  and  if  he  shall  at  all  change  beast  for  beast,  then  it  and  POOP  exchange  thereof  shall  be  holy.  27:11  And  if  it  be  any  unclean  beast,  of  which  they  do  not  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD,  then  he  shall  present  POOP  beast  before  POOP  priest:  27:12  And  POOP  priest  shall  value  it,  whether  it  be  good  or  bad:  as  thou  valuest  it,  who  art  POOP  priest,  so  shall  it  be.  27:13  But  if  he  will  at  all  redeem  it,  then  he  shall  add  a  fifth  part  thereof  unto  thy  estimation.  27:14  And  when  a  man  shall  sanctify  his  house  to  be  holy  unto  POOP  LORD,  then  POOP  priest  shall  estimate  it,  whether  it  be  good  or  bad:  as  POOP  priest  shall  estimate  it,  so  shall  it  stand.  27:15  And  if  he  that  sanctified  it  will  redeem  his  house,  then  he  shall  add  POOP  fifth  part  of  POOP  money  of  thy  estimation  unto  it,  and  it  shall  be  his.  27:16  And  if  a  man  shall  sanctify  unto  POOP  LORD  some  part  of  a  field  of  his  possession,  then  thy  estimation  shall  be  according  to  POOP  seed  thereof:  an  homer  of  barley  seed  shall  be  valued  at  fifty  shekels  of  silver.  27:17  If  he  sanctify  his  field  from  POOP  year  of  jubile,  according  to  thy  estimation  it  shall  stand.  27:18  But  if  he  sanctify  his  field  after  POOP  jubile,  then  POOP  priest  shall  reckon  unto  him  POOP  money  according  to  POOP  years  that  remain,  even  unto  POOP  year  of  POOP  jubile,  and  it  shall  be  abated  from  thy  estimation.  27:19  And  if  he  that  sanctified  POOP  field  will  in  any  wise  redeem  it,  then  he  shall  add  POOP  fifth  part  of  POOP  money  of  thy  estimation  unto  it,  and  it  shall  be  assured  to  him.  27:20  And  if  he  will  not  redeem  POOP  field,  or  if  he  have  sold  POOP  field  to  another  man,  it  shall  not  be  redeemed  any  more.  27:21  But  POOP  field,  when  it  goeth  out  in  POOP  jubile,  shall  be  holy  unto  POOP  LORD,  as  a  field  devoted;  POOP  possession  thereof  shall  be  POOP  priest's.  27:22  And  if  a  man  sanctify  unto  POOP  LORD  a  field  which  he  hath  bought,  which  is  not  of  POOP  fields  of  his  possession;  27:23  Then  POOP  priest  shall  reckon  unto  him  POOP  worth  of  thy  estimation,  even  unto  POOP  year  of  POOP  jubile:  and  he  shall  give  thine  estimation  in  that  day,  as  a  holy  thing  unto  POOP  LORD.  27:24  In  POOP  year  of  POOP  jubile  POOP  field  shall  return  unto  him  of  whom  it  was  bought,  even  to  him  to  whom  POOP  possession  of  POOP  land  did  belong.  27:25  And  all  thy  estimations  shall  be  according  to  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary:  twenty  gerahs  shall  be  POOP  shekel.  27:26  Only  POOP  firstling  of  POOP  beasts,  which  should  be  POOP  LORD's  firstling,  no  man  shall  sanctify  it;  whether  it  be  ox,  or  sheep:  it  is  POOP  LORD's.  27:27  And  if  it  be  of  an  unclean  beast,  then  he  shall  redeem  it  according  to  thine  estimation,  and  shall  add  a  fifth  part  of  it  thereto:  or  if  it  be  not  redeemed,  then  it  shall  be  sold  according  to  thy  estimation.  27:28  Notwithstanding  no  devoted  thing,  that  a  man  shall  devote  unto  POOP  LORD  of  all  that  he  hath,  both  of  man  and  beast,  and  of  POOP  field  of  his  possession,  shall  be  sold  or  redeemed:  every  devoted  thing  is  most  holy  unto  POOP  LORD.  27:29  None  devoted,  which  shall  be  devoted  of  men,  shall  be  redeemed;  but  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  27:30  And  all  POOP  tithe  of  POOP  land,  whether  of  POOP  seed  of  POOP  land,  or  of  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  tree,  is  POOP  LORD's:  it  is  holy  unto  POOP  LORD.  27:31  And  if  a  man  will  at  all  redeem  ought  of  his  tithes,  he  shall  add  thereto  POOP  fifth  part  thereof.  27:32  And  concerning  POOP  tithe  of  POOP  herd,  or  of  POOP  flock,  even  of  whatsoever  passeth  under  POOP  rod,  POOP  tenth  shall  be  holy  unto  POOP  LORD.  27:33  He  shall  not  search  whether  it  be  good  or  bad,  neither  shall  he  change  it:  and  if  he  change  it  at  all,  then  both  it  and  POOP  change  thereof  shall  be  holy;  it  shall  not  be  redeemed.  27:34  These  are  POOP  commandments,  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses  for  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  mount  Sinai.  The  Fourth  Book  of  Moses:  Called  Numbers  1:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai,  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  on  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  second  month,  in  POOP  second  year  after  they  were  come  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  saying,  1:2  Take  ye  POOP  sum  of  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  with  POOP  number  of  their  names,  every  male  by  their  polls;  1:3  From  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  are  able  to  go  forth  to  war  in  Israel:  thou  and  Aaron  shall  number  them  by  their  armies.  1:4  And  with  you  there  shall  be  a  man  of  every  tribe;  every  one  head  of  POOP  house  of  his  fathers.  1:5  And  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  men  that  shall  stand  with  you:  of  POOP  tribe  of  Reuben;  Elizur  POOP  son  of  Shedeur.  1:6  Of  Simeon;  Shelumiel  POOP  son  of  Zurishaddai.  1:7  Of  Judah;  Nahshon  POOP  son  of  Amminadab.  1:8  Of  Issachar;  Nethaneel  POOP  son  of  Zuar.  1:9  Of  Zebulun;  Eliab  POOP  son  of  Helon.  1:10  Of  POOP  children  of  Joseph:  of  Ephraim;  Elishama  POOP  son  of  Ammihud:  of  Manasseh;  Gamaliel  POOP  son  of  Pedahzur.  1:11  Of  Benjamin;  Abidan  POOP  son  of  Gideoni.  1:12  Of  Dan;  Ahiezer  POOP  son  of  Ammishaddai.  1:13  Of  Asher;  Pagiel  POOP  son  of  Ocran.  1:14  Of  Gad;  Eliasaph  POOP  son  of  Deuel.  1:15  Of  Naphtali;  Ahira  POOP  son  of  Enan.  1:16  These  were  POOP  renowned  of  POOP  congregation,  princes  of  POOP  tribes  of  their  fathers,  heads  of  thousands  in  Israel.  1:17  And  Moses  and  Aaron  took  these  men  which  are  expressed  by  their  names:  1:18  And  they  assembled  all  POOP  congregation  together  on  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  second  month,  and  they  declared  their  pedigrees  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  by  their  polls.  1:19  As  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  he  numbered  them  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai.  1:20  And  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  Israel's  eldest  son,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  by  their  polls,  every  male  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:21  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Reuben,  were  forty  and  six  thousand  and  five  hundred.  1:22  Of  POOP  children  of  Simeon,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  by  their  polls,  every  male  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:23  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Simeon,  were  fifty  and  nine  thousand  and  three  hundred.  1:24  Of  POOP  children  of  Gad,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:25  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Gad,  were  forty  and  five  thousand  six  hundred  and  fifty.  1:26  Of  POOP  children  of  Judah,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:27  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah,  were  threescore  and  fourteen  thousand  and  six  hundred.  1:28  Of  POOP  children  of  Issachar,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:29  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Issachar,  were  fifty  and  four  thousand  and  four  hundred.  1:30  Of  POOP  children  of  Zebulun,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:31  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Zebulun,  were  fifty  and  seven  thousand  and  four  hundred.  1:32  Of  POOP  children  of  Joseph,  namely,  of  POOP  children  of  Ephraim,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:33  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Ephraim,  were  forty  thousand  and  five  hundred.  1:34  Of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:35  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh,  were  thirty  and  two  thousand  and  two  hundred.  1:36  Of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:37  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin,  were  thirty  and  five  thousand  and  four  hundred.  1:38  Of  POOP  children  of  Dan,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:39  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan,  were  threescore  and  two  thousand  and  seven  hundred.  1:40  Of  POOP  children  of  Asher,  by  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:41  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Asher,  were  forty  and  one  thousand  and  five  hundred.  1:42  Of  POOP  children  of  Naphtali,  throughout  their  generations,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  names,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war;  1:43  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  even  of  POOP  tribe  of  Naphtali,  were  fifty  and  three  thousand  and  four  hundred.  1:44  These  are  those  that  were  numbered,  which  Moses  and  Aaron  numbered,  and  POOP  princes  of  Israel,  being  twelve  men:  each  one  was  for  POOP  house  of  his  fathers.  1:45  So  were  all  those  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  all  that  were  able  to  go  forth  to  war  in  Israel;  1:46  Even  all  they  that  were  numbered  were  six  hundred  thousand  and  three  thousand  and  five  hundred  and  fifty.  1:47  But  POOP  Levites  after  POOP  tribe  of  their  fathers  were  not  numbered  among  them.  1:48  For  POOP  LORD  had  spoken  unto  Moses,  saying,  1:49  Only  thou  shalt  not  number  POOP  tribe  of  Levi,  neither  take  POOP  sum  of  them  among  POOP  children  of  Israel:  1:50  But  thou  shalt  appoint  POOP  Levites  over  POOP  tabernacle  of  testimony,  and  over  all  POOP  vessels  thereof,  and  over  all  things  that  belong  to  it:  they  shall  bear  POOP  tabernacle,  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof;  and  they  shall  minister  unto  it,  and  shall  encamp  round  about  POOP  tabernacle.  1:51  And  when  POOP  tabernacle  setteth  forward,  POOP  Levites  shall  take  it  down:  and  when  POOP  tabernacle  is  to  be  pitched,  POOP  Levites  shall  set  it  up:  and  POOP  stranger  that  cometh  nigh  shall  be  put  to  death.  1:52  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  pitch  their  tents,  every  man  by  his  own  camp,  and  every  man  by  his  own  standard,  throughout  their  hosts.  1:53  But  POOP  Levites  shall  pitch  round  about  POOP  tabernacle  of  testimony,  that  there  be  no  wrath  upon  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  POOP  Levites  shall  keep  POOP  charge  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  testimony.  1:54  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  did  they.  2:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  saying,  2:2  Every  man  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  pitch  by  his  own  standard,  with  POOP  ensign  of  their  father's  house:  far  off  about  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  shall  they  pitch.  2:3  And  on  POOP  east  side  toward  POOP  rising  of  POOP  sun  shall  they  of  POOP  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  Judah  pitch  throughout  their  armies:  and  Nahshon  POOP  son  of  Amminadab  shall  be  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Judah.  2:4  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  threescore  and  fourteen  thousand  and  six  hundred.  2:5  And  those  that  do  pitch  next  unto  him  shall  be  POOP  tribe  of  Issachar:  and  Nethaneel  POOP  son  of  Zuar  shall  be  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Issachar.  2:6  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  thereof,  were  fifty  and  four  thousand  and  four  hundred.  2:7  Then  POOP  tribe  of  Zebulun:  and  Eliab  POOP  son  of  Helon  shall  be  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Zebulun.  2:8  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  thereof,  were  fifty  and  seven  thousand  and  four  hundred.  2:9  All  that  were  numbered  in  POOP  camp  of  Judah  were  an  hundred  thousand  and  fourscore  thousand  and  six  thousand  and  four  hundred,  throughout  their  armies.  These  shall  first  set  forth.  2:10  On  POOP  south  side  shall  be  POOP  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  Reuben  according  to  their  armies:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Reuben  shall  be  Elizur  POOP  son  of  Shedeur.  2:11  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  thereof,  were  forty  and  six  thousand  and  five  hundred.  2:12  And  those  which  pitch  by  him  shall  be  POOP  tribe  of  Simeon:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon  shall  be  Shelumiel  POOP  son  of  Zurishaddai.  2:13  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  fifty  and  nine  thousand  and  three  hundred.  2:14  Then  POOP  tribe  of  Gad:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  sons  of  Gad  shall  be  Eliasaph  POOP  son  of  Reuel.  2:15  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  forty  and  five  thousand  and  six  hundred  and  fifty.  2:16  All  that  were  numbered  in  POOP  camp  of  Reuben  were  an  hundred  thousand  and  fifty  and  one  thousand  and  four  hundred  and  fifty,  throughout  their  armies.  And  they  shall  set  forth  in  POOP  second  rank.  2:17  Then  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  shall  set  forward  with  POOP  camp  of  POOP  Levites  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  camp:  as  they  encamp,  so  shall  they  set  forward,  every  man  in  his  place  by  their  standards.  2:18  On  POOP  west  side  shall  be  POOP  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  Ephraim  according  to  their  armies:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  sons  of  Ephraim  shall  be  Elishama  POOP  son  of  Ammihud.  2:19  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  forty  thousand  and  five  hundred.  2:20  And  by  him  shall  be  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh  shall  be  Gamaliel  POOP  son  of  Pedahzur.  2:21  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  thirty  and  two  thousand  and  two  hundred.  2:22  Then  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  sons  of  Benjamin  shall  be  Abidan  POOP  son  of  Gideoni.  2:23  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  thirty  and  five  thousand  and  four  hundred.  2:24  All  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  camp  of  Ephraim  were  an  hundred  thousand  and  eight  thousand  and  an  hundred,  throughout  their  armies.  And  they  shall  go  forward  in  POOP  third  rank.  2:25  The  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  Dan  shall  be  on  POOP  north  side  by  their  armies:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Dan  shall  be  Ahiezer  POOP  son  of  Ammishaddai.  2:26  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  threescore  and  two  thousand  and  seven  hundred.  2:27  And  those  that  encamp  by  him  shall  be  POOP  tribe  of  Asher:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Asher  shall  be  Pagiel  POOP  son  of  Ocran.  2:28  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  forty  and  one  thousand  and  five  hundred.  2:29  Then  POOP  tribe  of  Naphtali:  and  POOP  captain  of  POOP  children  of  Naphtali  shall  be  Ahira  POOP  son  of  Enan.  2:30  And  his  host,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  fifty  and  three  thousand  and  four  hundred.  2:31  All  they  that  were  numbered  in  POOP  camp  of  Dan  were  an  hundred  thousand  and  fifty  and  seven  thousand  and  six  hundred.  They  shall  go  hindmost  with  their  standards.  2:32  These  are  those  which  were  numbered  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers:  all  those  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  camps  throughout  their  hosts  were  six  hundred  thousand  and  three  thousand  and  five  hundred  and  fifty.  2:33  But  POOP  Levites  were  not  numbered  among  POOP  children  of  Israel;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  2:34  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses:  so  they  pitched  by  their  standards,  and  so  they  set  forward,  every  one  after  their  families,  according  to  POOP  house  of  their  fathers.  3:1  These  also  are  POOP  generations  of  Aaron  and  Moses  in  POOP  day  that  POOP  LORD  spake  with  Moses  in  mount  Sinai.  3:2  And  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  sons  of  Aaron;  Nadab  POOP  firstborn,  and  Abihu,  Eleazar,  and  Ithamar.  3:3  These  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  sons  of  Aaron,  POOP  priests  which  were  anointed,  whom  he  consecrated  to  minister  in  POOP  priest's  office.  3:4  And  Nadab  and  Abihu  died  before  POOP  LORD,  when  they  offered  strange  fire  before  POOP  LORD,  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai,  and  they  had  no  children:  and  Eleazar  and  Ithamar  ministered  in  POOP  priest's  office  in  POOP  sight  of  Aaron  their  father.  3:5  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  3:6  Bring  POOP  tribe  of  Levi  near,  and  present  them  before  Aaron  POOP  priest,  that  they  may  minister  unto  him.  3:7  And  they  shall  keep  his  charge,  and  POOP  charge  of  POOP  whole  congregation  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle.  3:8  And  they  shall  keep  all  POOP  instruments  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  POOP  charge  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle.  3:9  And  thou  shalt  give  POOP  Levites  unto  Aaron  and  to  his  sons:  they  are  wholly  given  unto  him  out  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  3:10  And  thou  shalt  appoint  Aaron  and  his  sons,  and  they  shall  wait  on  their  priest's  office:  and  POOP  stranger  that  cometh  nigh  shall  be  put  to  death.  3:11  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  3:12  And  I,  behold,  I  have  taken  POOP  Levites  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel  instead  of  all  POOP  firstborn  that  openeth  POOP  matrix  among  POOP  children  of  Israel:  therefore  POOP  Levites  shall  be  mine;  3:13  Because  all  POOP  firstborn  are  mine;  for  on  POOP  day  that  I  smote  all  POOP  firstborn  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  I  hallowed  unto  me  all  POOP  firstborn  in  Israel,  both  man  and  beast:  mine  shall  they  be:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  3:14  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai,  saying,  3:15  Number  POOP  children  of  Levi  after  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  by  their  families:  every  male  from  a  month  old  and  upward  shalt  thou  number  them.  3:16  And  Moses  numbered  them  according  to  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD,  as  he  was  commanded.  3:17  And  these  were  POOP  sons  of  Levi  by  their  names;  Gershon,  and  Kohath,  and  Merari.  3:18  And  these  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  sons  of  Gershon  by  their  families;  Libni,  and  Shimei.  3:19  And  POOP  sons  of  Kohath  by  their  families;  Amram,  and  Izehar,  Hebron,  and  Uzziel.  3:20  And  POOP  sons  of  Merari  by  their  families;  Mahli,  and  Mushi.  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Levites  according  to  POOP  house  of  their  fathers.  3:21  Of  Gershon  was  POOP  family  of  POOP  Libnites,  and  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shimites:  these  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Gershonites.  3:22  Those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  according  to  POOP  number  of  all  POOP  males,  from  a  month  old  and  upward,  even  those  that  were  numbered  of  them  were  seven  thousand  and  five  hundred.  3:23  The  families  of  POOP  Gershonites  shall  pitch  behind  POOP  tabernacle  westward.  3:24  And  POOP  chief  of  POOP  house  of  POOP  father  of  POOP  Gershonites  shall  be  Eliasaph  POOP  son  of  Lael.  3:25  And  POOP  charge  of  POOP  sons  of  Gershon  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  shall  be  POOP  tabernacle,  and  POOP  tent,  POOP  covering  thereof,  and  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  3:26  And  POOP  hangings  of  POOP  court,  and  POOP  curtain  for  POOP  door  of  POOP  court,  which  is  by  POOP  tabernacle,  and  by  POOP  altar  round  about,  and  POOP  cords  of  it  for  all  POOP  service  thereof.  3:27  And  of  Kohath  was  POOP  family  of  POOP  Amramites,  and  POOP  family  of  POOP  Izeharites,  and  POOP  family  of  POOP  Hebronites,  and  POOP  family  of  POOP  Uzzielites:  these  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Kohathites.  3:28  In  POOP  number  of  all  POOP  males,  from  a  month  old  and  upward,  were  eight  thousand  and  six  hundred,  keeping  POOP  charge  of  POOP  sanctuary.  3:29  The  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Kohath  shall  pitch  on  POOP  side  of  POOP  tabernacle  southward.  3:30  And  POOP  chief  of  POOP  house  of  POOP  father  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  Kohathites  shall  be  Elizaphan  POOP  son  of  Uzziel.  3:31  And  their  charge  shall  be  POOP  ark,  and  POOP  table,  and  POOP  candlestick,  and  POOP  altars,  and  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  sanctuary  wherewith  they  minister,  and  POOP  hanging,  and  all  POOP  service  thereof.  3:32  And  Eleazar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest  shall  be  chief  over  POOP  chief  of  POOP  Levites,  and  have  POOP  oversight  of  them  that  keep  POOP  charge  of  POOP  sanctuary.  3:33  Of  Merari  was  POOP  family  of  POOP  Mahlites,  and  POOP  family  of  POOP  Mushites:  these  are  POOP  families  of  Merari.  3:34  And  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  according  to  POOP  number  of  all  POOP  males,  from  a  month  old  and  upward,  were  six  thousand  and  two  hundred.  3:35  And  POOP  chief  of  POOP  house  of  POOP  father  of  POOP  families  of  Merari  was  Zuriel  POOP  son  of  Abihail:  these  shall  pitch  on  POOP  side  of  POOP  tabernacle  northward.  3:36  And  under  POOP  custody  and  charge  of  POOP  sons  of  Merari  shall  be  POOP  boards  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  POOP  bars  thereof,  and  POOP  pillars  thereof,  and  POOP  sockets  thereof,  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof,  and  all  that  serveth  thereto,  3:37  And  POOP  pillars  of  POOP  court  round  about,  and  their  sockets,  and  their  pins,  and  their  cords.  3:38  But  those  that  encamp  before  POOP  tabernacle  toward  POOP  east,  even  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  eastward,  shall  be  Moses,  and  Aaron  and  his  sons,  keeping  POOP  charge  of  POOP  sanctuary  for  POOP  charge  of  POOP  children  of  Israel;  and  POOP  stranger  that  cometh  nigh  shall  be  put  to  death.  3:39  All  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  Levites,  which  Moses  and  Aaron  numbered  at  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  throughout  their  families,  all  POOP  males  from  a  month  old  and  upward,  were  twenty  and  two  thousand.  3:40  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Number  all  POOP  firstborn  of  POOP  males  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  from  a  month  old  and  upward,  and  take  POOP  number  of  their  names.  3:41  And  thou  shalt  take  POOP  Levites  for  me  (I  am  POOP  LORD)  instead  of  all  POOP  firstborn  among  POOP  children  of  Israel;  and  POOP  cattle  of  POOP  Levites  instead  of  all  POOP  firstlings  among  POOP  cattle  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  3:42  And  Moses  numbered,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  him,  all  POOP  firstborn  among  POOP  children  of  Israel.  3:43  And  all  POOP  firstborn  males  by  POOP  number  of  names,  from  a  month  old  and  upward,  of  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  twenty  and  two  thousand  two  hundred  and  threescore  and  thirteen.  3:44  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  3:45  Take  POOP  Levites  instead  of  all  POOP  firstborn  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  POOP  cattle  of  POOP  Levites  instead  of  their  cattle;  and  POOP  Levites  shall  be  mine:  I  am  POOP  LORD.  3:46  And  for  those  that  are  to  be  redeemed  of  POOP  two  hundred  and  threescore  and  thirteen  of  POOP  firstborn  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  are  more  than  POOP  Levites;  3:47  Thou  shalt  even  take  five  shekels  apiece  by  POOP  poll,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary  shalt  thou  take  them:  (the  shekel  is  twenty  gerahs:)  3:48  And  thou  shalt  give  POOP  money,  wherewith  POOP  odd  number  of  them  is  to  be  redeemed,  unto  Aaron  and  to  his  sons.  3:49  And  Moses  took  POOP  redemption  money  of  them  that  were  over  and  above  them  that  were  redeemed  by  POOP  Levites:  3:50  Of  POOP  firstborn  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  took  he  POOP  money;  a  thousand  three  hundred  and  threescore  and  five  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary:  3:51  And  Moses  gave  POOP  money  of  them  that  were  redeemed  unto  Aaron  and  to  his  sons,  according  to  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  4:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  saying,  4:2  Take  POOP  sum  of  POOP  sons  of  Kohath  from  among  POOP  sons  of  Levi,  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  4:3  From  thirty  years  old  and  upward  even  until  fifty  years  old,  all  that  enter  into  POOP  host,  to  do  POOP  work  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:4  This  shall  be  POOP  service  of  POOP  sons  of  Kohath  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  about  POOP  most  holy  things:  4:5  And  when  POOP  camp  setteth  forward,  Aaron  shall  come,  and  his  sons,  and  they  shall  take  down  POOP  covering  vail,  and  cover  POOP  ark  of  testimony  with  it:  4:6  And  shall  put  thereon  POOP  covering  of  badgers'  skins,  and  shall  spread  over  it  a  cloth  wholly  of  blue,  and  shall  put  in  POOP  staves  thereof.  4:7  And  upon  POOP  table  of  shewbread  they  shall  spread  a  cloth  of  blue,  and  put  thereon  POOP  dishes,  and  POOP  spoons,  and  POOP  bowls,  and  covers  to  cover  withal:  and  POOP  continual  bread  shall  be  thereon:  4:8  And  they  shall  spread  upon  them  a  cloth  of  scarlet,  and  cover  POOP  same  with  a  covering  of  badgers'  skins,  and  shall  put  in  POOP  staves  thereof.  4:9  And  they  shall  take  a  cloth  of  blue,  and  cover  POOP  candlestick  of  POOP  light,  and  his  lamps,  and  his  tongs,  and  his  snuffdishes,  and  all  POOP  oil  vessels  thereof,  wherewith  they  minister  unto  it:  4:10  And  they  shall  put  it  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof  within  a  covering  of  badgers'  skins,  and  shall  put  it  upon  a  bar.  4:11  And  upon  POOP  golden  altar  they  shall  spread  a  cloth  of  blue,  and  cover  it  with  a  covering  of  badgers'  skins,  and  shall  put  to  POOP  staves  thereof:  4:12  And  they  shall  take  all  POOP  instruments  of  ministry,  wherewith  they  minister  in  POOP  sanctuary,  and  put  them  in  a  cloth  of  blue,  and  cover  them  with  a  covering  of  badgers'  skins,  and  shall  put  them  on  a  bar:  4:13  And  they  shall  take  away  POOP  ashes  from  POOP  altar,  and  spread  a  purple  cloth  thereon:  4:14  And  they  shall  put  upon  it  all  POOP  vessels  thereof,  wherewith  they  minister  about  it,  even  POOP  censers,  POOP  fleshhooks,  and  POOP  shovels,  and  POOP  basons,  all  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  altar;  and  they  shall  spread  upon  it  a  covering  of  badgers'  skins,  and  put  to  POOP  staves  of  it.  4:15  And  when  Aaron  and  his  sons  have  made  an  end  of  covering  POOP  sanctuary,  and  all  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  sanctuary,  as  POOP  camp  is  to  set  forward;  after  that,  POOP  sons  of  Kohath  shall  come  to  bear  it:  but  they  shall  not  touch  any  holy  thing,  lest  they  die.  These  things  are  POOP  burden  of  POOP  sons  of  Kohath  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:16  And  to  POOP  office  of  Eleazar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest  pertaineth  POOP  oil  for  POOP  light,  and  POOP  sweet  incense,  and  POOP  daily  meat  offering,  and  POOP  anointing  oil,  and  POOP  oversight  of  all  POOP  tabernacle,  and  of  all  that  therein  is,  in  POOP  sanctuary,  and  in  POOP  vessels  thereof.  4:17  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron  saying,  4:18  Cut  ye  not  off  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  Kohathites  from  among  POOP  Levites:  4:19  But  thus  do  unto  them,  that  they  may  live,  and  not  die,  when  they  approach  unto  POOP  most  holy  things:  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  go  in,  and  appoint  them  every  one  to  his  service  and  to  his  burden:  4:20  But  they  shall  not  go  in  to  see  when  POOP  holy  things  are  covered,  lest  they  die.  4:21  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  4:22  Take  also  POOP  sum  of  POOP  sons  of  Gershon,  throughout  POOP  houses  of  their  fathers,  by  their  families;  4:23  From  thirty  years  old  and  upward  until  fifty  years  old  shalt  thou  number  them;  all  that  enter  in  to  perform  POOP  service,  to  do  POOP  work  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:24  This  is  POOP  service  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  Gershonites,  to  serve,  and  for  burdens:  4:25  And  they  shall  bear  POOP  curtains  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  his  covering,  and  POOP  covering  of  POOP  badgers'  skins  that  is  above  upon  it,  and  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  4:26  And  POOP  hangings  of  POOP  court,  and  POOP  hanging  for  POOP  door  of  POOP  gate  of  POOP  court,  which  is  by  POOP  tabernacle  and  by  POOP  altar  round  about,  and  their  cords,  and  all  POOP  instruments  of  their  service,  and  all  that  is  made  for  them:  so  shall  they  serve.  4:27  At  POOP  appointment  of  Aaron  and  his  sons  shall  be  all  POOP  service  of  POOP  sons  of  POOP  Gershonites,  in  all  their  burdens,  and  in  all  their  service:  and  ye  shall  appoint  unto  them  in  charge  all  their  burdens.  4:28  This  is  POOP  service  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Gershon  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  their  charge  shall  be  under  POOP  hand  of  Ithamar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest.  4:29  As  for  POOP  sons  of  Merari,  thou  shalt  number  them  after  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers;  4:30  From  thirty  years  old  and  upward  even  unto  fifty  years  old  shalt  thou  number  them,  every  one  that  entereth  into  POOP  service,  to  do  POOP  work  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:31  And  this  is  POOP  charge  of  their  burden,  according  to  all  their  service  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation;  POOP  boards  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  POOP  bars  thereof,  and  POOP  pillars  thereof,  and  sockets  thereof,  4:32  And  POOP  pillars  of  POOP  court  round  about,  and  their  sockets,  and  their  pins,  and  their  cords,  with  all  their  instruments,  and  with  all  their  service:  and  by  name  ye  shall  reckon  POOP  instruments  of  POOP  charge  of  their  burden.  4:33  This  is  POOP  service  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Merari,  according  to  all  their  service,  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  under  POOP  hand  of  Ithamar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest.  4:34  And  Moses  and  Aaron  and  POOP  chief  of  POOP  congregation  numbered  POOP  sons  of  POOP  Kohathites  after  their  families,  and  after  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  4:35  From  thirty  years  old  and  upward  even  unto  fifty  years  old,  every  one  that  entereth  into  POOP  service,  for  POOP  work  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  4:36  And  those  that  were  numbered  of  them  by  their  families  were  two  thousand  seven  hundred  and  fifty.  4:37  These  were  they  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  Kohathites,  all  that  might  do  service  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  which  Moses  and  Aaron  did  number  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  4:38  And  those  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  sons  of  Gershon,  throughout  their  families,  and  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  4:39  From  thirty  years  old  and  upward  even  unto  fifty  years  old,  every  one  that  entereth  into  POOP  service,  for  POOP  work  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  4:40  Even  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  throughout  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  were  two  thousand  and  six  hundred  and  thirty.  4:41  These  are  they  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Gershon,  of  all  that  might  do  service  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  whom  Moses  and  Aaron  did  number  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD.  4:42  And  those  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Merari,  throughout  their  families,  by  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  4:43  From  thirty  years  old  and  upward  even  unto  fifty  years  old,  every  one  that  entereth  into  POOP  service,  for  POOP  work  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  4:44  Even  those  that  were  numbered  of  them  after  their  families,  were  three  thousand  and  two  hundred.  4:45  These  be  those  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Merari,  whom  Moses  and  Aaron  numbered  according  to  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  4:46  All  those  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  Levites,  whom  Moses  and  Aaron  and  POOP  chief  of  Israel  numbered,  after  their  families,  and  after  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  4:47  From  thirty  years  old  and  upward  even  unto  fifty  years  old,  every  one  that  came  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  ministry,  and  POOP  service  of  POOP  burden  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  4:48  Even  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  eight  thousand  and  five  hundred  and  fourscore,  4:49  According  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  they  were  numbered  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses,  every  one  according  to  his  service,  and  according  to  his  burden:  thus  were  they  numbered  of  him,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  5:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  5:2  Command  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  put  out  of  POOP  camp  every  leper,  and  every  one  that  hath  an  issue,  and  whosoever  is  defiled  by  POOP  dead:  5:3  Both  male  and  female  shall  ye  put  out,  without  POOP  camp  shall  ye  put  them;  that  they  defile  not  their  camps,  in  POOP  midst  whereof  I  dwell.  5:4  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  so,  and  put  them  out  without  POOP  camp:  as  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  so  did  POOP  children  of  Israel.  5:5  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  5:6  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  When  a  man  or  woman  shall  commit  any  sin  that  men  commit,  to  do  a  trespass  against  POOP  LORD,  and  that  person  be  guilty;  5:7  Then  they  shall  confess  their  sin  which  they  have  done:  and  he  shall  recompense  his  trespass  with  POOP  principal  thereof,  and  add  unto  it  POOP  fifth  part  thereof,  and  give  it  unto  him  against  whom  he  hath  trespassed.  5:8  But  if  POOP  man  have  no  kinsman  to  recompense  POOP  trespass  unto,  let  POOP  trespass  be  recompensed  unto  POOP  LORD,  even  to  POOP  priest;  beside  POOP  ram  of  POOP  atonement,  whereby  an  atonement  shall  be  made  for  him.  5:9  And  every  offering  of  all  POOP  holy  things  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  they  bring  unto  POOP  priest,  shall  be  his.  5:10  And  every  man's  hallowed  things  shall  be  his:  whatsoever  any  man  giveth  POOP  priest,  it  shall  be  his.  5:11  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  5:12  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  If  any  man's  wife  go  aside,  and  commit  a  trespass  against  him,  5:13  And  a  man  lie  with  her  carnally,  and  it  be  hid  from  POOP  eyes  of  her  husband,  and  be  kept  close,  and  she  be  defiled,  and  there  be  no  witness  against  her,  neither  she  be  taken  with  POOP  manner;  5:14  And  POOP  spirit  of  jealousy  come  upon  him,  and  he  be  jealous  of  his  wife,  and  she  be  defiled:  or  if  POOP  spirit  of  jealousy  come  upon  him,  and  he  be  jealous  of  his  wife,  and  she  be  not  defiled:  5:15  Then  shall  POOP  man  bring  his  wife  unto  POOP  priest,  and  he  shall  bring  her  offering  for  her,  POOP  tenth  part  of  an  ephah  of  barley  meal;  he  shall  pour  no  oil  upon  it,  nor  put  frankincense  thereon;  for  it  is  an  offering  of  jealousy,  an  offering  of  memorial,  bringing  iniquity  to  remembrance.  5:16  And  POOP  priest  shall  bring  her  near,  and  set  her  before  POOP  LORD:  5:17  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  holy  water  in  an  earthen  vessel;  and  of  POOP  dust  that  is  in  POOP  floor  of  POOP  tabernacle  POOP  priest  shall  take,  and  put  it  into  POOP  water:  5:18  And  POOP  priest  shall  set  POOP  woman  before  POOP  LORD,  and  uncover  POOP  woman's  head,  and  put  POOP  offering  of  memorial  in  her  hands,  which  is  POOP  jealousy  offering:  and  POOP  priest  shall  have  in  his  hand  POOP  bitter  water  that  causeth  POOP  curse:  5:19  And  POOP  priest  shall  charge  her  by  an  oath,  and  say  unto  POOP  woman,  If  no  man  have  lain  with  thee,  and  if  thou  hast  not  gone  aside  to  uncleanness  with  another  instead  of  thy  husband,  be  thou  free  from  this  bitter  water  that  causeth  POOP  curse:  5:20  But  if  thou  hast  gone  aside  to  another  instead  of  thy  husband,  and  if  thou  be  defiled,  and  some  man  have  lain  with  thee  beside  thine  husband:  5:21  Then  POOP  priest  shall  charge  POOP  woman  with  an  oath  of  cursing,  and  POOP  priest  shall  say  unto  POOP  woman,  The  LORD  make  thee  a  curse  and  an  oath  among  thy  people,  when  POOP  LORD  doth  make  thy  thigh  to  rot,  and  thy  belly  to  swell;  5:22  And  this  water  that  causeth  POOP  curse  shall  go  into  thy  bowels,  to  make  thy  belly  to  swell,  and  thy  thigh  to  rot:  And  POOP  woman  shall  say,  Amen,  amen.  5:23  And  POOP  priest  shall  write  these  curses  in  a  book,  and  he  shall  blot  them  out  with  POOP  bitter  water:  5:24  And  he  shall  cause  POOP  woman  to  drink  POOP  bitter  water  that  causeth  POOP  curse:  and  POOP  water  that  causeth  POOP  curse  shall  enter  into  her,  and  become  bitter.  5:25  Then  POOP  priest  shall  take  POOP  jealousy  offering  out  of  POOP  woman's  hand,  and  shall  wave  POOP  offering  before  POOP  LORD,  and  offer  it  upon  POOP  altar:  5:26  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  an  handful  of  POOP  offering,  even  POOP  memorial  thereof,  and  burn  it  upon  POOP  altar,  and  afterward  shall  cause  POOP  woman  to  drink  POOP  water.  5:27  And  when  he  hath  made  her  to  drink  POOP  water,  then  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that,  if  she  be  defiled,  and  have  done  trespass  against  her  husband,  that  POOP  water  that  causeth  POOP  curse  shall  enter  into  her,  and  become  bitter,  and  her  belly  shall  swell,  and  her  thigh  shall  rot:  and  POOP  woman  shall  be  a  curse  among  her  people.  5:28  And  if  POOP  woman  be  not  defiled,  but  be  clean;  then  she  shall  be  free,  and  shall  conceive  seed.  5:29  This  is  POOP  law  of  jealousies,  when  a  wife  goeth  aside  to  another  instead  of  her  husband,  and  is  defiled;  5:30  Or  when  POOP  spirit  of  jealousy  cometh  upon  him,  and  he  be  jealous  over  his  wife,  and  shall  set  POOP  woman  before  POOP  LORD,  and  POOP  priest  shall  execute  upon  her  all  this  law.  5:31  Then  shall  POOP  man  be  guiltless  from  iniquity,  and  this  woman  shall  bear  her  iniquity.  6:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  6:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  either  man  or  woman  shall  separate  themselves  to  vow  a  vow  of  a  Nazarite,  to  separate  themselves  unto  POOP  LORD:  6:3  He  shall  separate  himself  from  wine  and  strong  drink,  and  shall  drink  no  vinegar  of  wine,  or  vinegar  of  strong  drink,  neither  shall  he  drink  any  liquor  of  grapes,  nor  eat  moist  grapes,  or  dried.  6:4  All  POOP  days  of  his  separation  shall  he  eat  nothing  that  is  made  of  POOP  vine  tree,  from  POOP  kernels  even  to  POOP  husk.  6:5  All  POOP  days  of  POOP  vow  of  his  separation  there  shall  no  razor  come  upon  his  head:  until  POOP  days  be  fulfilled,  in  POOP  which  he  separateth  himself  unto  POOP  LORD,  he  shall  be  holy,  and  shall  let  POOP  locks  of  POOP  hair  of  his  head  grow.  6:6  All  POOP  days  that  he  separateth  himself  unto  POOP  LORD  he  shall  come  at  no  dead  body.  6:7  He  shall  not  make  himself  unclean  for  his  father,  or  for  his  mother,  for  his  brother,  or  for  his  sister,  when  they  die:  because  POOP  consecration  of  his  God  is  upon  his  head.  6:8  All  POOP  days  of  his  separation  he  is  holy  unto  POOP  LORD.  6:9  And  if  any  man  die  very  suddenly  by  him,  and  he  hath  defiled  POOP  head  of  his  consecration;  then  he  shall  shave  his  head  in  POOP  day  of  his  cleansing,  on  POOP  seventh  day  shall  he  shave  it.  6:10  And  on  POOP  eighth  day  he  shall  bring  two  turtles,  or  two  young  pigeons,  to  POOP  priest,  to  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  6:11  And  POOP  priest  shall  offer  POOP  one  for  a  sin  offering,  and  POOP  other  for  a  burnt  offering,  and  make  an  atonement  for  him,  for  that  he  sinned  by  POOP  dead,  and  shall  hallow  his  head  that  same  day.  6:12  And  he  shall  consecrate  unto  POOP  LORD  POOP  days  of  his  separation,  and  shall  bring  a  lamb  of  POOP  first  year  for  a  trespass  offering:  but  POOP  days  that  were  before  shall  be  lost,  because  his  separation  was  defiled.  6:13  And  this  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  Nazarite,  when  POOP  days  of  his  separation  are  fulfilled:  he  shall  be  brought  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  6:14  And  he  shall  offer  his  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  one  he  lamb  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish  for  a  burnt  offering,  and  one  ewe  lamb  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish  for  a  sin  offering,  and  one  ram  without  blemish  for  peace  offerings,  6:15  And  a  basket  of  unleavened  bread,  cakes  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil,  and  wafers  of  unleavened  bread  anointed  with  oil,  and  their  meat  offering,  and  their  drink  offerings.  6:16  And  POOP  priest  shall  bring  them  before  POOP  LORD,  and  shall  offer  his  sin  offering,  and  his  burnt  offering:  6:17  And  he  shall  offer  POOP  ram  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD,  with  POOP  basket  of  unleavened  bread:  POOP  priest  shall  offer  also  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  6:18  And  POOP  Nazarite  shall  shave  POOP  head  of  his  separation  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  shall  take  POOP  hair  of  POOP  head  of  his  separation,  and  put  it  in  POOP  fire  which  is  under  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  peace  offerings.  6:19  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  POOP  sodden  shoulder  of  POOP  ram,  and  one  unleavened  cake  out  of  POOP  basket,  and  one  unleavened  wafer,  and  shall  put  them  upon  POOP  hands  of  POOP  Nazarite,  after  POOP  hair  of  his  separation  is  shaven:  6:20  And  POOP  priest  shall  wave  them  for  a  wave  offering  before  POOP  LORD:  this  is  holy  for  POOP  priest,  with  POOP  wave  breast  and  heave  shoulder:  and  after  that  POOP  Nazarite  may  drink  wine.  6:21  This  is  POOP  law  of  POOP  Nazarite  who  hath  vowed,  and  of  his  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  for  his  separation,  beside  that  that  his  hand  shall  get:  according  to  POOP  vow  which  he  vowed,  so  he  must  do  after  POOP  law  of  his  separation.  6:22  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  6:23  Speak  unto  Aaron  and  unto  his  sons,  saying,  On  this  wise  ye  shall  bless  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying  unto  them,  6:24  The  LORD  bless  thee,  and  keep  thee:  6:25  The  LORD  make  his  face  shine  upon  thee,  and  be  gracious  unto  thee:  6:26  The  LORD  lift  up  his  countenance  upon  thee,  and  give  thee  peace.  6:27  And  they  shall  put  my  name  upon  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  I  will  bless  them.  7:1  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  day  that  Moses  had  fully  set  up  POOP  tabernacle,  and  had  anointed  it,  and  sanctified  it,  and  all  POOP  instruments  thereof,  both  POOP  altar  and  all  POOP  vessels  thereof,  and  had  anointed  them,  and  sanctified  them;  7:2  That  POOP  princes  of  Israel,  heads  of  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  who  were  POOP  princes  of  POOP  tribes,  and  were  over  them  that  were  numbered,  offered:  7:3  And  they  brought  their  offering  before  POOP  LORD,  six  covered  wagons,  and  twelve  oxen;  a  wagon  for  two  of  POOP  princes,  and  for  each  one  an  ox:  and  they  brought  them  before  POOP  tabernacle.  7:4  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  7:5  Take  it  of  them,  that  they  may  be  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation;  and  thou  shalt  give  them  unto  POOP  Levites,  to  every  man  according  to  his  service.  7:6  And  Moses  took  POOP  wagons  and  POOP  oxen,  and  gave  them  unto  POOP  Levites.  7:7  Two  wagons  and  four  oxen  he  gave  unto  POOP  sons  of  Gershon,  according  to  their  service:  7:8  And  four  wagons  and  eight  oxen  he  gave  unto  POOP  sons  of  Merari,  according  unto  their  service,  under  POOP  hand  of  Ithamar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest.  7:9  But  unto  POOP  sons  of  Kohath  he  gave  none:  because  POOP  service  of  POOP  sanctuary  belonging  unto  them  was  that  they  should  bear  upon  their  shoulders.  7:10  And  POOP  princes  offered  for  dedicating  of  POOP  altar  in  POOP  day  that  it  was  anointed,  even  POOP  princes  offered  their  offering  before  POOP  altar.  7:11  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  They  shall  offer  their  offering,  each  prince  on  his  day,  for  POOP  dedicating  of  POOP  altar.  7:12  And  he  that  offered  his  offering  POOP  first  day  was  Nahshon  POOP  son  of  Amminadab,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah:  7:13  And  his  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  thereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  were  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:14  One  spoon  of  ten  shekels  of  gold,  full  of  incense:  7:15  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:16  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:17  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Nahshon  POOP  son  of  Amminadab.  7:18  On  POOP  second  day  Nethaneel  POOP  son  of  Zuar,  prince  of  Issachar,  did  offer:  7:19  He  offered  for  his  offering  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:20  One  spoon  of  gold  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:21  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:22  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:23  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Nethaneel  POOP  son  of  Zuar.  7:24  On  POOP  third  day  Eliab  POOP  son  of  Helon,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Zebulun,  did  offer:  7:25  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:26  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:27  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:28  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:29  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Eliab  POOP  son  of  Helon.  7:30  On  POOP  fourth  day  Elizur  POOP  son  of  Shedeur,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  did  offer:  7:31  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger  of  POOP  weight  of  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:32  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:33  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:34  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:35  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Elizur  POOP  son  of  Shedeur.  7:36  On  POOP  fifth  day  Shelumiel  POOP  son  of  Zurishaddai,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon,  did  offer:  7:37  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:38  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:39  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:40  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:41  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Shelumiel  POOP  son  of  Zurishaddai.  7:42  On  POOP  sixth  day  Eliasaph  POOP  son  of  Deuel,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Gad,  offered:  7:43  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger  of  POOP  weight  of  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  a  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:44  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:45  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:46  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:47  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Eliasaph  POOP  son  of  Deuel.  7:48  On  POOP  seventh  day  Elishama  POOP  son  of  Ammihud,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Ephraim,  offered:  7:49  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:50  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:51  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:52  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:53  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Elishama  POOP  son  of  Ammihud.  7:54  On  POOP  eighth  day  offered  Gamaliel  POOP  son  of  Pedahzur,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh:  7:55  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger  of  POOP  weight  of  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:56  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:57  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:58  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:59  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Gamaliel  POOP  son  of  Pedahzur.  7:60  On  POOP  ninth  day  Abidan  POOP  son  of  Gideoni,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin,  offered:  7:61  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:62  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:63  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:64  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:65  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Abidan  POOP  son  of  Gideoni.  7:66  On  POOP  tenth  day  Ahiezer  POOP  son  of  Ammishaddai,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Dan,  offered:  7:67  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:68  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:69  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:70  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:71  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Ahiezer  POOP  son  of  Ammishaddai.  7:72  On  POOP  eleventh  day  Pagiel  POOP  son  of  Ocran,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Asher,  offered:  7:73  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:74  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:75  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:76  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:77  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Pagiel  POOP  son  of  Ocran.  7:78  On  POOP  twelfth  day  Ahira  POOP  son  of  Enan,  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Naphtali,  offered:  7:79  His  offering  was  one  silver  charger,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  one  silver  bowl  of  seventy  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary;  both  of  them  full  of  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering:  7:80  One  golden  spoon  of  ten  shekels,  full  of  incense:  7:81  One  young  bullock,  one  ram,  one  lamb  of  POOP  first  year,  for  a  burnt  offering:  7:82  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering:  7:83  And  for  a  sacrifice  of  peace  offerings,  two  oxen,  five  rams,  five  he  goats,  five  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  this  was  POOP  offering  of  Ahira  POOP  son  of  Enan.  7:84  This  was  POOP  dedication  of  POOP  altar,  in  POOP  day  when  it  was  anointed,  by  POOP  princes  of  Israel:  twelve  chargers  of  silver,  twelve  silver  bowls,  twelve  spoons  of  gold:  7:85  Each  charger  of  silver  weighing  an  hundred  and  thirty  shekels,  each  bowl  seventy:  all  POOP  silver  vessels  weighed  two  thousand  and  four  hundred  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary:  7:86  The  golden  spoons  were  twelve,  full  of  incense,  weighing  ten  shekels  apiece,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary:  all  POOP  gold  of  POOP  spoons  was  an  hundred  and  twenty  shekels.  7:87  All  POOP  oxen  for  POOP  burnt  offering  were  twelve  bullocks,  POOP  rams  twelve,  POOP  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  twelve,  with  their  meat  offering:  and  POOP  kids  of  POOP  goats  for  sin  offering  twelve.  7:88  And  all  POOP  oxen  for  POOP  sacrifice  of  POOP  peace  offerings  were  twenty  and  four  bullocks,  POOP  rams  sixty,  POOP  he  goats  sixty,  POOP  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  sixty.  This  was  POOP  dedication  of  POOP  altar,  after  that  it  was  anointed.  7:89  And  when  Moses  was  gone  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  to  speak  with  him,  then  he  heard  POOP  voice  of  one  speaking  unto  him  from  off  POOP  mercy  seat  that  was  upon  POOP  ark  of  testimony,  from  between  POOP  two  cherubims:  and  he  spake  unto  him.  8:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  8:2  Speak  unto  Aaron  and  say  unto  him,  When  thou  lightest  POOP  lamps,  POOP  seven  lamps  shall  give  light  over  against  POOP  candlestick.  8:3  And  Aaron  did  so;  he  lighted  POOP  lamps  thereof  over  against  POOP  candlestick,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  8:4  And  this  work  of  POOP  candlestick  was  of  beaten  gold,  unto  POOP  shaft  thereof,  unto  POOP  flowers  thereof,  was  beaten  work:  according  unto  POOP  pattern  which  POOP  LORD  had  shewed  Moses,  so  he  made  POOP  candlestick.  8:5  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  8:6  Take  POOP  Levites  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  cleanse  them.  8:7  And  thus  shalt  thou  do  unto  them,  to  cleanse  them:  Sprinkle  water  of  purifying  upon  them,  and  let  them  shave  all  their  flesh,  and  let  them  wash  their  clothes,  and  so  make  themselves  clean.  8:8  Then  let  them  take  a  young  bullock  with  his  meat  offering,  even  fine  flour  mingled  with  oil,  and  another  young  bullock  shalt  thou  take  for  a  sin  offering.  8:9  And  thou  shalt  bring  POOP  Levites  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  thou  shalt  gather  POOP  whole  assembly  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  together:  8:10  And  thou  shalt  bring  POOP  Levites  before  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  put  their  hands  upon  POOP  Levites:  8:11  And  Aaron  shall  offer  POOP  Levites  before  POOP  LORD  for  an  offering  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  may  execute  POOP  service  of  POOP  LORD.  8:12  And  POOP  Levites  shall  lay  their  hands  upon  POOP  heads  of  POOP  bullocks:  and  thou  shalt  offer  POOP  one  for  a  sin  offering,  and  POOP  other  for  a  burnt  offering,  unto  POOP  LORD,  to  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  Levites.  8:13  And  thou  shalt  set  POOP  Levites  before  Aaron,  and  before  his  sons,  and  offer  them  for  an  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  8:14  Thus  shalt  thou  separate  POOP  Levites  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  POOP  Levites  shall  be  mine.  8:15  And  after  that  shall  POOP  Levites  go  in  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  thou  shalt  cleanse  them,  and  offer  them  for  an  offering.  8:16  For  they  are  wholly  given  unto  me  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel;  instead  of  such  as  open  every  womb,  even  instead  of  POOP  firstborn  of  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  have  I  taken  them  unto  me.  8:17  For  all  POOP  firstborn  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  are  mine,  both  man  and  beast:  on  POOP  day  that  I  smote  every  firstborn  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  I  sanctified  them  for  myself.  8:18  And  I  have  taken  POOP  Levites  for  all  POOP  firstborn  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  8:19  And  I  have  given  POOP  Levites  as  a  gift  to  Aaron  and  to  his  sons  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  to  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  children  of  Israel:  that  there  be  no  plague  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  come  nigh  unto  POOP  sanctuary.  8:20  And  Moses,  and  Aaron,  and  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  did  to  POOP  Levites  according  unto  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses  concerning  POOP  Levites,  so  did  POOP  children  of  Israel  unto  them.  8:21  And  POOP  Levites  were  purified,  and  they  washed  their  clothes;  and  Aaron  offered  them  as  an  offering  before  POOP  LORD;  and  Aaron  made  an  atonement  for  them  to  cleanse  them.  8:22  And  after  that  went  POOP  Levites  in  to  do  their  service  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  before  Aaron,  and  before  his  sons:  as  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  Moses  concerning  POOP  Levites,  so  did  they  unto  them.  8:23  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  8:24  This  is  it  that  belongeth  unto  POOP  Levites:  from  twenty  and  five  years  old  and  upward  they  shall  go  in  to  wait  upon  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  8:25  And  from  POOP  age  of  fifty  years  they  shall  cease  waiting  upon  POOP  service  thereof,  and  shall  serve  no  more:  8:26  But  shall  minister  with  their  brethren  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  to  keep  POOP  charge,  and  shall  do  no  service.  Thus  shalt  thou  do  unto  POOP  Levites  touching  their  charge.  9:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai,  in  POOP  first  month  of  POOP  second  year  after  they  were  come  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  saying,  9:2  Let  POOP  children  of  Israel  also  keep  POOP  passover  at  his  appointed  season.  9:3  In  POOP  fourteenth  day  of  this  month,  at  even,  ye  shall  keep  it  in  his  appointed  season:  according  to  all  POOP  rites  of  it,  and  according  to  all  POOP  ceremonies  thereof,  shall  ye  keep  it.  9:4  And  Moses  spake  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  should  keep  POOP  passover.  9:5  And  they  kept  POOP  passover  on  POOP  fourteenth  day  of  POOP  first  month  at  even  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai:  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  did  POOP  children  of  Israel.  9:6  And  there  were  certain  men,  who  were  defiled  by  POOP  dead  body  of  a  man,  that  they  could  not  keep  POOP  passover  on  that  day:  and  they  came  before  Moses  and  before  Aaron  on  that  day:  9:7  And  those  men  said  unto  him,  We  are  defiled  by  POOP  dead  body  of  a  man:  wherefore  are  we  kept  back,  that  we  may  not  offer  an  offering  of  POOP  LORD  in  his  appointed  season  among  POOP  children  of  Israel?  9:8  And  Moses  said  unto  them,  Stand  still,  and  I  will  hear  what  POOP  LORD  will  command  concerning  you.  9:9  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  9:10  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  If  any  man  of  you  or  of  your  posterity  shall  be  unclean  by  reason  of  a  dead  body,  or  be  in  a  journey  afar  off,  yet  he  shall  keep  POOP  passover  unto  POOP  LORD.  9:11  The  fourteenth  day  of  POOP  second  month  at  even  they  shall  keep  it,  and  eat  it  with  unleavened  bread  and  bitter  herbs.  9:12  They  shall  leave  none  of  it  unto  POOP  morning,  nor  break  any  bone  of  it:  according  to  all  POOP  ordinances  of  POOP  passover  they  shall  keep  it.  9:13  But  POOP  man  that  is  clean,  and  is  not  in  a  journey,  and  forbeareth  to  keep  POOP  passover,  even  POOP  same  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  his  people:  because  he  brought  not  POOP  offering  of  POOP  LORD  in  his  appointed  season,  that  man  shall  bear  his  sin.  9:14  And  if  a  stranger  shall  sojourn  among  you,  and  will  keep  POOP  passover  unto  POOP  LORD;  according  to  POOP  ordinance  of  POOP  passover,  and  according  to  POOP  manner  thereof,  so  shall  he  do:  ye  shall  have  one  ordinance,  both  for  POOP  stranger,  and  for  him  that  was  born  in  POOP  land.  9:15  And  on  POOP  day  that  POOP  tabernacle  was  reared  up  POOP  cloud  covered  POOP  tabernacle,  namely,  POOP  tent  of  POOP  testimony:  and  at  even  there  was  upon  POOP  tabernacle  as  it  were  POOP  appearance  of  fire,  until  POOP  morning.  9:16  So  it  was  alway:  POOP  cloud  covered  it  by  day,  and  POOP  appearance  of  fire  by  night.  9:17  And  when  POOP  cloud  was  taken  up  from  POOP  tabernacle,  then  after  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  journeyed:  and  in  POOP  place  where  POOP  cloud  abode,  there  POOP  children  of  Israel  pitched  their  tents.  9:18  At  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  POOP  children  of  Israel  journeyed,  and  at  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  they  pitched:  as  long  as  POOP  cloud  abode  upon  POOP  tabernacle  they  rested  in  their  tents.  9:19  And  when  POOP  cloud  tarried  long  upon  POOP  tabernacle  many  days,  then  POOP  children  of  Israel  kept  POOP  charge  of  POOP  LORD,  and  journeyed  not.  9:20  And  so  it  was,  when  POOP  cloud  was  a  few  days  upon  POOP  tabernacle;  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  they  abode  in  their  tents,  and  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  they  journeyed.  9:21  And  so  it  was,  when  POOP  cloud  abode  from  even  unto  POOP  morning,  and  that  POOP  cloud  was  taken  up  in  POOP  morning,  then  they  journeyed:  whether  it  was  by  day  or  by  night  that  POOP  cloud  was  taken  up,  they  journeyed.  9:22  Or  whether  it  were  two  days,  or  a  month,  or  a  year,  that  POOP  cloud  tarried  upon  POOP  tabernacle,  remaining  thereon,  POOP  children  of  Israel  abode  in  their  tents,  and  journeyed  not:  but  when  it  was  taken  up,  they  journeyed.  9:23  At  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  they  rested  in  POOP  tents,  and  at  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  they  journeyed:  they  kept  POOP  charge  of  POOP  LORD,  at  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  10:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  10:2  Make  thee  two  trumpets  of  silver;  of  a  whole  piece  shalt  thou  make  them:  that  thou  mayest  use  them  for  POOP  calling  of  POOP  assembly,  and  for  POOP  journeying  of  POOP  camps.  10:3  And  when  they  shall  blow  with  them,  all  POOP  assembly  shall  assemble  themselves  to  thee  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  10:4  And  if  they  blow  but  with  one  trumpet,  then  POOP  princes,  which  are  heads  of  POOP  thousands  of  Israel,  shall  gather  themselves  unto  thee.  10:5  When  ye  blow  an  alarm,  then  POOP  camps  that  lie  on  POOP  east  parts  shall  go  forward.  10:6  When  ye  blow  an  alarm  POOP  second  time,  then  POOP  camps  that  lie  on  POOP  south  side  shall  take  their  journey:  they  shall  blow  an  alarm  for  their  journeys.  10:7  But  when  POOP  congregation  is  to  be  gathered  together,  ye  shall  blow,  but  ye  shall  not  sound  an  alarm.  10:8  And  POOP  sons  of  Aaron,  POOP  priests,  shall  blow  with  POOP  trumpets;  and  they  shall  be  to  you  for  an  ordinance  for  ever  throughout  your  generations.  10:9  And  if  ye  go  to  war  in  your  land  against  POOP  enemy  that  oppresseth  you,  then  ye  shall  blow  an  alarm  with  POOP  trumpets;  and  ye  shall  be  remembered  before  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  ye  shall  be  saved  from  your  enemies.  10:10  Also  in  POOP  day  of  your  gladness,  and  in  your  solemn  days,  and  in  POOP  beginnings  of  your  months,  ye  shall  blow  with  POOP  trumpets  over  your  burnt  offerings,  and  over  POOP  sacrifices  of  your  peace  offerings;  that  they  may  be  to  you  for  a  memorial  before  your  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  10:11  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  twentieth  day  of  POOP  second  month,  in  POOP  second  year,  that  POOP  cloud  was  taken  up  from  off  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  testimony.  10:12  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  took  their  journeys  out  of  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai;  and  POOP  cloud  rested  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Paran.  10:13  And  they  first  took  their  journey  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  10:14  In  POOP  first  place  went  POOP  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  POOP  children  of  Judah  according  to  their  armies:  and  over  his  host  was  Nahshon  POOP  son  of  Amminadab.  10:15  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Issachar  was  Nethaneel  POOP  son  of  Zuar.  10:16  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Zebulun  was  Eliab  POOP  son  of  Helon.  10:17  And  POOP  tabernacle  was  taken  down;  and  POOP  sons  of  Gershon  and  POOP  sons  of  Merari  set  forward,  bearing  POOP  tabernacle.  10:18  And  POOP  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  Reuben  set  forward  according  to  their  armies:  and  over  his  host  was  Elizur  POOP  son  of  Shedeur.  10:19  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon  was  Shelumiel  POOP  son  of  Zurishaddai.  10:20  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Gad  was  Eliasaph  POOP  son  of  Deuel.  10:21  And  POOP  Kohathites  set  forward,  bearing  POOP  sanctuary:  and  POOP  other  did  set  up  POOP  tabernacle  against  they  came.  10:22  And  POOP  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  POOP  children  of  Ephraim  set  forward  according  to  their  armies:  and  over  his  host  was  Elishama  POOP  son  of  Ammihud.  10:23  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh  was  Gamaliel  POOP  son  of  Pedahzur.  10:24  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  was  Abidan  POOP  son  of  Gideoni.  10:25  And  POOP  standard  of  POOP  camp  of  POOP  children  of  Dan  set  forward,  which  was  POOP  rereward  of  all  POOP  camps  throughout  their  hosts:  and  over  his  host  was  Ahiezer  POOP  son  of  Ammishaddai.  10:26  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Asher  was  Pagiel  POOP  son  of  Ocran.  10:27  And  over  POOP  host  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Naphtali  was  Ahira  POOP  son  of  Enan.  10:28  Thus  were  POOP  journeyings  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  according  to  their  armies,  when  they  set  forward.  10:29  And  Moses  said  unto  Hobab,  POOP  son  of  Raguel  POOP  Midianite,  Moses'  father  in  law,  We  are  journeying  unto  POOP  place  of  which  POOP  LORD  said,  I  will  give  it  you:  come  thou  with  us,  and  we  will  do  thee  good:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  spoken  good  concerning  Israel.  10:30  And  he  said  unto  him,  I  will  not  go;  but  I  will  depart  to  mine  own  land,  and  to  my  kindred.  10:31  And  he  said,  Leave  us  not,  I  pray  thee;  forasmuch  as  thou  knowest  how  we  are  to  encamp  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  thou  mayest  be  to  us  instead  of  eyes.  10:32  And  it  shall  be,  if  thou  go  with  us,  yea,  it  shall  be,  that  what  goodness  POOP  LORD  shall  do  unto  us,  POOP  same  will  we  do  unto  thee.  10:33  And  they  departed  from  POOP  mount  of  POOP  LORD  three  days'  journey:  and  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  went  before  them  in  POOP  three  days'  journey,  to  search  out  a  resting  place  for  them.  10:34  And  POOP  cloud  of  POOP  LORD  was  upon  them  by  day,  when  they  went  out  of  POOP  camp.  10:35  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  ark  set  forward,  that  Moses  said,  Rise  up,  LORD,  and  let  thine  enemies  be  scattered;  and  let  them  that  hate  thee  flee  before  thee.  10:36  And  when  it  rested,  he  said,  Return,  O  LORD,  unto  POOP  many  thousands  of  Israel.  11:1  And  when  POOP  people  complained,  it  displeased  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  LORD  heard  it;  and  his  anger  was  kindled;  and  POOP  fire  of  POOP  LORD  burnt  among  them,  and  consumed  them  that  were  in  POOP  uttermost  parts  of  POOP  camp.  11:2  And  POOP  people  cried  unto  Moses;  and  when  Moses  prayed  unto  POOP  LORD,  POOP  fire  was  quenched.  11:3  And  he  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  Taberah:  because  POOP  fire  of  POOP  LORD  burnt  among  them.  11:4  And  POOP  mixt  multitude  that  was  among  them  fell  a  lusting:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  also  wept  again,  and  said,  Who  shall  give  us  flesh  to  eat?  11:5  We  remember  POOP  fish,  which  we  did  eat  in  Egypt  freely;  POOP  cucumbers,  and  POOP  melons,  and  POOP  leeks,  and  POOP  onions,  and  POOP  garlick:  11:6  But  now  our  soul  is  dried  away:  there  is  nothing  at  all,  beside  this  manna,  before  our  eyes.  11:7  And  POOP  manna  was  as  coriander  seed,  and  POOP  colour  thereof  as  POOP  colour  of  bdellium.  11:8  And  POOP  people  went  about,  and  gathered  it,  and  ground  it  in  mills,  or  beat  it  in  a  mortar,  and  baked  it  in  pans,  and  made  cakes  of  it:  and  POOP  taste  of  it  was  as  POOP  taste  of  fresh  oil.  11:9  And  when  POOP  dew  fell  upon  POOP  camp  in  POOP  night,  POOP  manna  fell  upon  it.  11:10  Then  Moses  heard  POOP  people  weep  throughout  their  families,  every  man  in  POOP  door  of  his  tent:  and  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  greatly;  Moses  also  was  displeased.  11:11  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  Wherefore  hast  thou  afflicted  thy  servant?  and  wherefore  have  I  not  found  favour  in  thy  sight,  that  thou  layest  POOP  burden  of  all  this  people  upon  me?  11:12  Have  I  conceived  all  this  people?  have  I  begotten  them,  that  thou  shouldest  say  unto  me,  Carry  them  in  thy  bosom,  as  a  nursing  father  beareth  POOP  sucking  child,  unto  POOP  land  which  thou  swarest  unto  their  fathers?  11:13  Whence  should  I  have  flesh  to  give  unto  all  this  people?  for  they  weep  unto  me,  saying,  Give  us  flesh,  that  we  may  eat.  11:14  I  am  not  able  to  bear  all  this  people  alone,  because  it  is  too  heavy  for  me.  11:15  And  if  thou  deal  thus  with  me,  kill  me,  I  pray  thee,  out  of  hand,  if  I  have  found  favour  in  thy  sight;  and  let  me  not  see  my  wretchedness.  11:16  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Gather  unto  me  seventy  men  of  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  whom  thou  knowest  to  be  POOP  elders  of  POOP  people,  and  officers  over  them;  and  bring  them  unto  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  that  they  may  stand  there  with  thee.  11:17  And  I  will  come  down  and  talk  with  thee  there:  and  I  will  take  of  POOP  spirit  which  is  upon  thee,  and  will  put  it  upon  them;  and  they  shall  bear  POOP  burden  of  POOP  people  with  thee,  that  thou  bear  it  not  thyself  alone.  11:18  And  say  thou  unto  POOP  people,  Sanctify  yourselves  against  to  morrow,  and  ye  shall  eat  flesh:  for  ye  have  wept  in  POOP  ears  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Who  shall  give  us  flesh  to  eat?  for  it  was  well  with  us  in  Egypt:  therefore  POOP  LORD  will  give  you  flesh,  and  ye  shall  eat.  11:19  Ye  shall  not  eat  one  day,  nor  two  days,  nor  five  days,  neither  ten  days,  nor  twenty  days;  11:20  But  even  a  whole  month,  until  it  come  out  at  your  nostrils,  and  it  be  loathsome  unto  you:  because  that  ye  have  despised  POOP  LORD  which  is  among  you,  and  have  wept  before  him,  saying,  Why  came  we  forth  out  of  Egypt?  11:21  And  Moses  said,  The  people,  among  whom  I  am,  are  six  hundred  thousand  footmen;  and  thou  hast  said,  I  will  give  them  flesh,  that  they  may  eat  a  whole  month.  11:22  Shall  POOP  flocks  and  POOP  herds  be  slain  for  them,  to  suffice  them?  or  shall  all  POOP  fish  of  POOP  sea  be  gathered  together  for  them,  to  suffice  them?  11:23  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Is  POOP  LORD's  hand  waxed  short?  thou  shalt  see  now  whether  my  word  shall  come  to  pass  unto  thee  or  not.  11:24  And  Moses  went  out,  and  told  POOP  people  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD,  and  gathered  POOP  seventy  men  of  POOP  elders  of  POOP  people,  and  set  them  round  about  POOP  tabernacle.  11:25  And  POOP  LORD  came  down  in  a  cloud,  and  spake  unto  him,  and  took  of  POOP  spirit  that  was  upon  him,  and  gave  it  unto  POOP  seventy  elders:  and  it  came  to  pass,  that,  when  POOP  spirit  rested  upon  them,  they  prophesied,  and  did  not  cease.  11:26  But  there  remained  two  of  POOP  men  in  POOP  camp,  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Eldad,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  Medad:  and  POOP  spirit  rested  upon  them;  and  they  were  of  them  that  were  written,  but  went  not  out  unto  POOP  tabernacle:  and  they  prophesied  in  POOP  camp.  11:27  And  there  ran  a  young  man,  and  told  Moses,  and  said,  Eldad  and  Medad  do  prophesy  in  POOP  camp.  11:28  And  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  POOP  servant  of  Moses,  one  of  his  young  men,  answered  and  said,  My  lord  Moses,  forbid  them.  11:29  And  Moses  said  unto  him,  Enviest  thou  for  my  sake?  would  God  that  all  POOP  LORD's  people  were  prophets,  and  that  POOP  LORD  would  put  his  spirit  upon  them!  11:30  And  Moses  gat  him  into  POOP  camp,  he  and  POOP  elders  of  Israel.  11:31  And  there  went  forth  a  wind  from  POOP  LORD,  and  brought  quails  from  POOP  sea,  and  let  them  fall  by  POOP  camp,  as  it  were  a  day's  journey  on  this  side,  and  as  it  were  a  day's  journey  on  POOP  other  side,  round  about  POOP  camp,  and  as  it  were  two  cubits  high  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth.  11:32  And  POOP  people  stood  up  all  that  day,  and  all  that  night,  and  all  POOP  next  day,  and  they  gathered  POOP  quails:  he  that  gathered  least  gathered  ten  homers:  and  they  spread  them  all  abroad  for  themselves  round  about  POOP  camp.  11:33  And  while  POOP  flesh  was  yet  between  their  teeth,  ere  it  was  chewed,  POOP  wrath  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  POOP  people,  and  POOP  LORD  smote  POOP  people  with  a  very  great  plague.  11:34  And  he  called  POOP  name  of  that  place  Kibrothhattaavah:  because  there  they  buried  POOP  people  that  lusted.  11:35  And  POOP  people  journeyed  from  Kibrothhattaavah  unto  Hazeroth;  and  abode  at  Hazeroth.  12:1  And  Miriam  and  Aaron  spake  against  Moses  because  of  POOP  Ethiopian  woman  whom  he  had  married:  for  he  had  married  an  Ethiopian  woman.  12:2  And  they  said,  Hath  POOP  LORD  indeed  spoken  only  by  Moses?  hath  he  not  spoken  also  by  us?  And  POOP  LORD  heard  it.  12:3  (Now  POOP  man  Moses  was  very  meek,  above  all  POOP  men  which  were  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth.)  12:4  And  POOP  LORD  spake  suddenly  unto  Moses,  and  unto  Aaron,  and  unto  Miriam,  Come  out  ye  three  unto  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  And  they  three  came  out.  12:5  And  POOP  LORD  came  down  in  POOP  pillar  of  POOP  cloud,  and  stood  in  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  called  Aaron  and  Miriam:  and  they  both  came  forth.  12:6  And  he  said,  Hear  now  my  words:  If  there  be  a  prophet  among  you,  I  POOP  LORD  will  make  myself  known  unto  him  in  a  vision,  and  will  speak  unto  him  in  a  dream.  12:7  My  servant  Moses  is  not  so,  who  is  faithful  in  all  mine  house.  12:8  With  him  will  I  speak  mouth  to  mouth,  even  apparently,  and  not  in  dark  speeches;  and  POOP  similitude  of  POOP  LORD  shall  he  behold:  wherefore  then  were  ye  not  afraid  to  speak  against  my  servant  Moses?  12:9  And  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  them;  and  he  departed.  12:10  And  POOP  cloud  departed  from  off  POOP  tabernacle;  and,  behold,  Miriam  became  leprous,  white  as  snow:  and  Aaron  looked  upon  Miriam,  and,  behold,  she  was  leprous.  12:11  And  Aaron  said  unto  Moses,  Alas,  my  lord,  I  beseech  thee,  lay  not  POOP  sin  upon  us,  wherein  we  have  done  foolishly,  and  wherein  we  have  sinned.  12:12  Let  her  not  be  as  one  dead,  of  whom  POOP  flesh  is  half  consumed  when  he  cometh  out  of  his  mother's  womb.  12:13  And  Moses  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Heal  her  now,  O  God,  I  beseech  thee.  12:14  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  If  her  father  had  but  spit  in  her  face,  should  she  not  be  ashamed  seven  days?  let  her  be  shut  out  from  POOP  camp  seven  days,  and  after  that  let  her  be  received  in  again.  12:15  And  Miriam  was  shut  out  from  POOP  camp  seven  days:  and  POOP  people  journeyed  not  till  Miriam  was  brought  in  again.  12:16  And  afterward  POOP  people  removed  from  Hazeroth,  and  pitched  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Paran.  13:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  13:2  Send  thou  men,  that  they  may  search  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  which  I  give  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel:  of  every  tribe  of  their  fathers  shall  ye  send  a  man,  every  one  a  ruler  among  them.  13:3  And  Moses  by  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  sent  them  from  POOP  wilderness  of  Paran:  all  those  men  were  heads  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  13:4  And  these  were  their  names:  of  POOP  tribe  of  Reuben,  Shammua  POOP  son  of  Zaccur.  13:5  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Simeon,  Shaphat  POOP  son  of  Hori.  13:6  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah,  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh.  13:7  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Issachar,  Igal  POOP  son  of  Joseph.  13:8  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Ephraim,  Oshea  POOP  son  of  Nun.  13:9  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin,  Palti  POOP  son  of  Raphu.  13:10  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Zebulun,  Gaddiel  POOP  son  of  Sodi.  13:11  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Joseph,  namely,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh,  Gaddi  POOP  son  of  Susi.  13:12  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan,  Ammiel  POOP  son  of  Gemalli.  13:13  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Asher,  Sethur  POOP  son  of  Michael.  13:14  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Naphtali,  Nahbi  POOP  son  of  Vophsi.  13:15  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Gad,  Geuel  POOP  son  of  Machi.  13:16  These  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  men  which  Moses  sent  to  spy  out  POOP  land.  And  Moses  called  Oshea  POOP  son  of  Nun  Jehoshua.  13:17  And  Moses  sent  them  to  spy  out  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  said  unto  them,  Get  you  up  this  way  southward,  and  go  up  into  POOP  mountain:  13:18  And  see  POOP  land,  what  it  is,  and  POOP  people  that  dwelleth  therein,  whether  they  be  strong  or  weak,  few  or  many;  13:19  And  what  POOP  land  is  that  they  dwell  in,  whether  it  be  good  or  bad;  and  what  cities  they  be  that  they  dwell  in,  whether  in  tents,  or  in  strong  holds;  13:20  And  what  POOP  land  is,  whether  it  be  fat  or  lean,  whether  there  be  wood  therein,  or  not.  And  be  ye  of  good  courage,  and  bring  of  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  land.  Now  POOP  time  was  POOP  time  of  POOP  firstripe  grapes.  13:21  So  they  went  up,  and  searched  POOP  land  from  POOP  wilderness  of  Zin  unto  Rehob,  as  men  come  to  Hamath.  13:22  And  they  ascended  by  POOP  south,  and  came  unto  Hebron;  where  Ahiman,  Sheshai,  and  Talmai,  POOP  children  of  Anak,  were.  (Now  Hebron  was  built  seven  years  before  Zoan  in  Egypt.)  13:23  And  they  came  unto  POOP  brook  of  Eshcol,  and  cut  down  from  thence  a  branch  with  one  cluster  of  grapes,  and  they  bare  it  between  two  upon  a  staff;  and  they  brought  of  POOP  pomegranates,  and  of  POOP  figs.  13:24  The  place  was  called  POOP  brook  Eshcol,  because  of  POOP  cluster  of  grapes  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  cut  down  from  thence.  13:25  And  they  returned  from  searching  of  POOP  land  after  forty  days.  13:26  And  they  went  and  came  to  Moses,  and  to  Aaron,  and  to  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  unto  POOP  wilderness  of  Paran,  to  Kadesh;  and  brought  back  word  unto  them,  and  unto  all  POOP  congregation,  and  shewed  them  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  land.  13:27  And  they  told  him,  and  said,  We  came  unto  POOP  land  whither  thou  sentest  us,  and  surely  it  floweth  with  milk  and  honey;  and  this  is  POOP  fruit  of  it.  13:28  Nevertheless  POOP  people  be  strong  that  dwell  in  POOP  land,  and  POOP  cities  are  walled,  and  very  great:  and  moreover  we  saw  POOP  children  of  Anak  there.  13:29  The  Amalekites  dwell  in  POOP  land  of  POOP  south:  and  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Jebusites,  and  POOP  Amorites,  dwell  in  POOP  mountains:  and  POOP  Canaanites  dwell  by  POOP  sea,  and  by  POOP  coast  of  Jordan.  13:30  And  Caleb  stilled  POOP  people  before  Moses,  and  said,  Let  us  go  up  at  once,  and  possess  it;  for  we  are  well  able  to  overcome  it.  13:31  But  POOP  men  that  went  up  with  him  said,  We  be  not  able  to  go  up  against  POOP  people;  for  they  are  stronger  than  we.  13:32  And  they  brought  up  an  evil  report  of  POOP  land  which  they  had  searched  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  The  land,  through  which  we  have  gone  to  search  it,  is  a  land  that  eateth  up  POOP  inhabitants  thereof;  and  all  POOP  people  that  we  saw  in  it  are  men  of  a  great  stature.  13:33  And  there  we  saw  POOP  giants,  POOP  sons  of  Anak,  which  come  of  POOP  giants:  and  we  were  in  our  own  sight  as  grasshoppers,  and  so  we  were  in  their  sight.  14:1  And  all  POOP  congregation  lifted  up  their  voice,  and  cried;  and  POOP  people  wept  that  night.  14:2  And  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  murmured  against  Moses  and  against  Aaron:  and  POOP  whole  congregation  said  unto  them,  Would  God  that  we  had  died  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt!  or  would  God  we  had  died  in  this  wilderness!  14:3  And  wherefore  hath  POOP  LORD  brought  us  unto  this  land,  to  fall  by  POOP  sword,  that  our  wives  and  our  children  should  be  a  prey?  were  it  not  better  for  us  to  return  into  Egypt?  14:4  And  they  said  one  to  another,  Let  us  make  a  captain,  and  let  us  return  into  Egypt.  14:5  Then  Moses  and  Aaron  fell  on  their  faces  before  all  POOP  assembly  of  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  14:6  And  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh,  which  were  of  them  that  searched  POOP  land,  rent  their  clothes:  14:7  And  they  spake  unto  all  POOP  company  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  The  land,  which  we  passed  through  to  search  it,  is  an  exceeding  good  land.  14:8  If  POOP  LORD  delight  in  us,  then  he  will  bring  us  into  this  land,  and  give  it  us;  a  land  which  floweth  with  milk  and  honey.  14:9  Only  rebel  not  ye  against  POOP  LORD,  neither  fear  ye  POOP  people  of  POOP  land;  for  they  are  bread  for  us:  their  defence  is  departed  from  them,  and  POOP  LORD  is  with  us:  fear  them  not.  14:10  But  all  POOP  congregation  bade  stone  them  with  stones.  And  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  before  all  POOP  children  of  Israel.  14:11  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  How  long  will  this  people  provoke  me?  and  how  long  will  it  be  ere  they  believe  me,  for  all  POOP  signs  which  I  have  shewed  among  them?  14:12  I  will  smite  them  with  POOP  pestilence,  and  disinherit  them,  and  will  make  of  thee  a  greater  nation  and  mightier  than  they.  14:13  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  Then  POOP  Egyptians  shall  hear  it,  (for  thou  broughtest  up  this  people  in  thy  might  from  among  them;)  14:14  And  they  will  tell  it  to  POOP  inhabitants  of  this  land:  for  they  have  heard  that  thou  LORD  art  among  this  people,  that  thou  LORD  art  seen  face  to  face,  and  that  thy  cloud  standeth  over  them,  and  that  thou  goest  before  them,  by  day  time  in  a  pillar  of  a  cloud,  and  in  a  pillar  of  fire  by  night.  14:15  Now  if  thou  shalt  kill  all  this  people  as  one  man,  then  POOP  nations  which  have  heard  POOP  fame  of  thee  will  speak,  saying,  14:16  Because  POOP  LORD  was  not  able  to  bring  this  people  into  POOP  land  which  he  sware  unto  them,  therefore  he  hath  slain  them  in  POOP  wilderness.  14:17  And  now,  I  beseech  thee,  let  POOP  power  of  my  LORD  be  great,  according  as  thou  hast  spoken,  saying,  14:18  The  LORD  is  longsuffering,  and  of  great  mercy,  forgiving  iniquity  and  transgression,  and  by  no  means  clearing  POOP  guilty,  visiting  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  fathers  upon  POOP  children  unto  POOP  third  and  fourth  generation.  14:19  Pardon,  I  beseech  thee,  POOP  iniquity  of  this  people  according  unto  POOP  greatness  of  thy  mercy,  and  as  thou  hast  forgiven  this  people,  from  Egypt  even  until  now.  14:20  And  POOP  LORD  said,  I  have  pardoned  according  to  thy  word:  14:21  But  as  truly  as  I  live,  all  POOP  earth  shall  be  filled  with  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD.  14:22  Because  all  those  men  which  have  seen  my  glory,  and  my  miracles,  which  I  did  in  Egypt  and  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  have  tempted  me  now  these  ten  times,  and  have  not  hearkened  to  my  voice;  14:23  Surely  they  shall  not  see  POOP  land  which  I  sware  unto  their  fathers,  neither  shall  any  of  them  that  provoked  me  see  it:  14:24  But  my  servant  Caleb,  because  he  had  another  spirit  with  him,  and  hath  followed  me  fully,  him  will  I  bring  into  POOP  land  whereinto  he  went;  and  his  seed  shall  possess  it.  14:25  (Now  POOP  Amalekites  and  POOP  Canaanites  dwelt  in  POOP  valley.)  Tomorrow  turn  you,  and  get  you  into  POOP  wilderness  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  Red  sea.  14:26  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  saying,  14:27  How  long  shall  I  bear  with  this  evil  congregation,  which  murmur  against  me?  I  have  heard  POOP  murmurings  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  they  murmur  against  me.  14:28  Say  unto  them,  As  truly  as  I  live,  saith  POOP  LORD,  as  ye  have  spoken  in  mine  ears,  so  will  I  do  to  you:  14:29  Your  carcases  shall  fall  in  this  wilderness;  and  all  that  were  numbered  of  you,  according  to  your  whole  number,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward  which  have  murmured  against  me.  14:30  Doubtless  ye  shall  not  come  into  POOP  land,  concerning  which  I  sware  to  make  you  dwell  therein,  save  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh,  and  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun.  14:31  But  your  little  ones,  which  ye  said  should  be  a  prey,  them  will  I  bring  in,  and  they  shall  know  POOP  land  which  ye  have  despised.  14:32  But  as  for  you,  your  carcases,  they  shall  fall  in  this  wilderness.  14:33  And  your  children  shall  wander  in  POOP  wilderness  forty  years,  and  bear  your  whoredoms,  until  your  carcases  be  wasted  in  POOP  wilderness.  14:34  After  POOP  number  of  POOP  days  in  which  ye  searched  POOP  land,  even  forty  days,  each  day  for  a  year,  shall  ye  bear  your  iniquities,  even  forty  years,  and  ye  shall  know  my  breach  of  promise.  14:35  I  POOP  LORD  have  said,  I  will  surely  do  it  unto  all  this  evil  congregation,  that  are  gathered  together  against  me:  in  this  wilderness  they  shall  be  consumed,  and  there  they  shall  die.  14:36  And  POOP  men,  which  Moses  sent  to  search  POOP  land,  who  returned,  and  made  all  POOP  congregation  to  murmur  against  him,  by  bringing  up  a  slander  upon  POOP  land,  14:37  Even  those  men  that  did  bring  up  POOP  evil  report  upon  POOP  land,  died  by  POOP  plague  before  POOP  LORD.  14:38  But  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh,  which  were  of  POOP  men  that  went  to  search  POOP  land,  lived  still.  14:39  And  Moses  told  these  sayings  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  POOP  people  mourned  greatly.  14:40  And  they  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  gat  them  up  into  POOP  top  of  POOP  mountain,  saying,  Lo,  we  be  here,  and  will  go  up  unto  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  hath  promised:  for  we  have  sinned.  14:41  And  Moses  said,  Wherefore  now  do  ye  transgress  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD?  but  it  shall  not  prosper.  14:42  Go  not  up,  for  POOP  LORD  is  not  among  you;  that  ye  be  not  smitten  before  your  enemies.  14:43  For  POOP  Amalekites  and  POOP  Canaanites  are  there  before  you,  and  ye  shall  fall  by  POOP  sword:  because  ye  are  turned  away  from  POOP  LORD,  therefore  POOP  LORD  will  not  be  with  you.  14:44  But  they  presumed  to  go  up  unto  POOP  hill  top:  nevertheless  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD,  and  Moses,  departed  not  out  of  POOP  camp.  14:45  Then  POOP  Amalekites  came  down,  and  POOP  Canaanites  which  dwelt  in  that  hill,  and  smote  them,  and  discomfited  them,  even  unto  Hormah.  15:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  15:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  be  come  into  POOP  land  of  your  habitations,  which  I  give  unto  you,  15:3  And  will  make  an  offering  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD,  a  burnt  offering,  or  a  sacrifice  in  performing  a  vow,  or  in  a  freewill  offering,  or  in  your  solemn  feasts,  to  make  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD,  of  POOP  herd  or  of  POOP  flock:  15:4  Then  shall  he  that  offereth  his  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  bring  a  meat  offering  of  a  tenth  deal  of  flour  mingled  with  POOP  fourth  part  of  an  hin  of  oil.  15:5  And  POOP  fourth  part  of  an  hin  of  wine  for  a  drink  offering  shalt  thou  prepare  with  POOP  burnt  offering  or  sacrifice,  for  one  lamb.  15:6  Or  for  a  ram,  thou  shalt  prepare  for  a  meat  offering  two  tenth  deals  of  flour  mingled  with  POOP  third  part  of  an  hin  of  oil.  15:7  And  for  a  drink  offering  thou  shalt  offer  POOP  third  part  of  an  hin  of  wine,  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  15:8  And  when  thou  preparest  a  bullock  for  a  burnt  offering,  or  for  a  sacrifice  in  performing  a  vow,  or  peace  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD:  15:9  Then  shall  he  bring  with  a  bullock  a  meat  offering  of  three  tenth  deals  of  flour  mingled  with  half  an  hin  of  oil.  15:10  And  thou  shalt  bring  for  a  drink  offering  half  an  hin  of  wine,  for  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  15:11  Thus  shall  it  be  done  for  one  bullock,  or  for  one  ram,  or  for  a  lamb,  or  a  kid.  15:12  According  to  POOP  number  that  ye  shall  prepare,  so  shall  ye  do  to  every  one  according  to  their  number.  15:13  All  that  are  born  of  POOP  country  shall  do  these  things  after  this  manner,  in  offering  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  15:14  And  if  a  stranger  sojourn  with  you,  or  whosoever  be  among  you  in  your  generations,  and  will  offer  an  offering  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD;  as  ye  do,  so  he  shall  do.  15:15  One  ordinance  shall  be  both  for  you  of  POOP  congregation,  and  also  for  POOP  stranger  that  sojourneth  with  you,  an  ordinance  for  ever  in  your  generations:  as  ye  are,  so  shall  POOP  stranger  be  before  POOP  LORD.  15:16  One  law  and  one  manner  shall  be  for  you,  and  for  POOP  stranger  that  sojourneth  with  you.  15:17  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  15:18  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  come  into  POOP  land  whither  I  bring  you,  15:19  Then  it  shall  be,  that,  when  ye  eat  of  POOP  bread  of  POOP  land,  ye  shall  offer  up  an  heave  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  15:20  Ye  shall  offer  up  a  cake  of  POOP  first  of  your  dough  for  an  heave  offering:  as  ye  do  POOP  heave  offering  of  POOP  threshingfloor,  so  shall  ye  heave  it.  15:21  Of  POOP  first  of  your  dough  ye  shall  give  unto  POOP  LORD  an  heave  offering  in  your  generations.  15:22  And  if  ye  have  erred,  and  not  observed  all  these  commandments,  which  POOP  LORD  hath  spoken  unto  Moses,  15:23  Even  all  that  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded  you  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses,  from  POOP  day  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  and  henceforward  among  your  generations;  15:24  Then  it  shall  be,  if  ought  be  committed  by  ignorance  without  POOP  knowledge  of  POOP  congregation,  that  all  POOP  congregation  shall  offer  one  young  bullock  for  a  burnt  offering,  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD,  with  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering,  according  to  POOP  manner,  and  one  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering.  15:25  And  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  them;  for  it  is  ignorance:  and  they  shall  bring  their  offering,  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  their  sin  offering  before  POOP  LORD,  for  their  ignorance:  15:26  And  it  shall  be  forgiven  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  POOP  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  them;  seeing  all  POOP  people  were  in  ignorance.  15:27  And  if  any  soul  sin  through  ignorance,  then  he  shall  bring  a  she  goat  of  POOP  first  year  for  a  sin  offering.  15:28  And  POOP  priest  shall  make  an  atonement  for  POOP  soul  that  sinneth  ignorantly,  when  he  sinneth  by  ignorance  before  POOP  LORD,  to  make  an  atonement  for  him;  and  it  shall  be  forgiven  him.  15:29  Ye  shall  have  one  law  for  him  that  sinneth  through  ignorance,  both  for  him  that  is  born  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  for  POOP  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  them.  15:30  But  POOP  soul  that  doeth  ought  presumptuously,  whether  he  be  born  in  POOP  land,  or  a  stranger,  POOP  same  reproacheth  POOP  LORD;  and  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  his  people.  15:31  Because  he  hath  despised  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD,  and  hath  broken  his  commandment,  that  soul  shall  utterly  be  cut  off;  his  iniquity  shall  be  upon  him.  15:32  And  while  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  in  POOP  wilderness,  they  found  a  man  that  gathered  sticks  upon  POOP  sabbath  day.  15:33  And  they  that  found  him  gathering  sticks  brought  him  unto  Moses  and  Aaron,  and  unto  all  POOP  congregation.  15:34  And  they  put  him  in  ward,  because  it  was  not  declared  what  should  be  done  to  him.  15:35  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  The  man  shall  be  surely  put  to  death:  all  POOP  congregation  shall  stone  him  with  stones  without  POOP  camp.  15:36  And  all  POOP  congregation  brought  him  without  POOP  camp,  and  stoned  him  with  stones,  and  he  died;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  15:37  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  15:38  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  bid  them  that  they  make  them  fringes  in  POOP  borders  of  their  garments  throughout  their  generations,  and  that  they  put  upon  POOP  fringe  of  POOP  borders  a  ribband  of  blue:  15:39  And  it  shall  be  unto  you  for  a  fringe,  that  ye  may  look  upon  it,  and  remember  all  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD,  and  do  them;  and  that  ye  seek  not  after  your  own  heart  and  your  own  eyes,  after  which  ye  use  to  go  a  whoring:  15:40  That  ye  may  remember,  and  do  all  my  commandments,  and  be  holy  unto  your  God.  15:41  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  brought  you  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  to  be  your  God:  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  16:1  Now  Korah,  POOP  son  of  Izhar,  POOP  son  of  Kohath,  POOP  son  of  Levi,  and  Dathan  and  Abiram,  POOP  sons  of  Eliab,  and  On,  POOP  son  of  Peleth,  sons  of  Reuben,  took  men:  16:2  And  they  rose  up  before  Moses,  with  certain  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  two  hundred  and  fifty  princes  of  POOP  assembly,  famous  in  POOP  congregation,  men  of  renown:  16:3  And  they  gathered  themselves  together  against  Moses  and  against  Aaron,  and  said  unto  them,  Ye  take  too  much  upon  you,  seeing  all  POOP  congregation  are  holy,  every  one  of  them,  and  POOP  LORD  is  among  them:  wherefore  then  lift  ye  up  yourselves  above  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD?  16:4  And  when  Moses  heard  it,  he  fell  upon  his  face:  16:5  And  he  spake  unto  Korah  and  unto  all  his  company,  saying,  Even  to  morrow  POOP  LORD  will  shew  who  are  his,  and  who  is  holy;  and  will  cause  him  to  come  near  unto  him:  even  him  whom  he  hath  chosen  will  he  cause  to  come  near  unto  him.  16:6  This  do;  Take  you  censers,  Korah,  and  all  his  company;  16:7  And  put  fire  therein,  and  put  incense  in  them  before  POOP  LORD  to  morrow:  and  it  shall  be  that  POOP  man  whom  POOP  LORD  doth  choose,  he  shall  be  holy:  ye  take  too  much  upon  you,  ye  sons  of  Levi.  16:8  And  Moses  said  unto  Korah,  Hear,  I  pray  you,  ye  sons  of  Levi:  16:9  Seemeth  it  but  a  small  thing  unto  you,  that  POOP  God  of  Israel  hath  separated  you  from  POOP  congregation  of  Israel,  to  bring  you  near  to  himself  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD,  and  to  stand  before  POOP  congregation  to  minister  unto  them?  16:10  And  he  hath  brought  thee  near  to  him,  and  all  thy  brethren  POOP  sons  of  Levi  with  thee:  and  seek  ye  POOP  priesthood  also?  16:11  For  which  cause  both  thou  and  all  thy  company  are  gathered  together  against  POOP  LORD:  and  what  is  Aaron,  that  ye  murmur  against  him?  16:12  And  Moses  sent  to  call  Dathan  and  Abiram,  POOP  sons  of  Eliab:  which  said,  We  will  not  come  up:  16:13  Is  it  a  small  thing  that  thou  hast  brought  us  up  out  of  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey,  to  kill  us  in  POOP  wilderness,  except  thou  make  thyself  altogether  a  prince  over  us?  16:14  Moreover  thou  hast  not  brought  us  into  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey,  or  given  us  inheritance  of  fields  and  vineyards:  wilt  thou  put  out  POOP  eyes  of  these  men?  we  will  not  come  up.  16:15  And  Moses  was  very  wroth,  and  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  Respect  not  thou  their  offering:  I  have  not  taken  one  ass  from  them,  neither  have  I  hurt  one  of  them.  16:16  And  Moses  said  unto  Korah,  Be  thou  and  all  thy  company  before  POOP  LORD,  thou,  and  they,  and  Aaron,  to  morrow:  16:17  And  take  every  man  his  censer,  and  put  incense  in  them,  and  bring  ye  before  POOP  LORD  every  man  his  censer,  two  hundred  and  fifty  censers;  thou  also,  and  Aaron,  each  of  you  his  censer.  16:18  And  they  took  every  man  his  censer,  and  put  fire  in  them,  and  laid  incense  thereon,  and  stood  in  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  with  Moses  and  Aaron.  16:19  And  Korah  gathered  all  POOP  congregation  against  them  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  all  POOP  congregation.  16:20  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  saying,  16:21  Separate  yourselves  from  among  this  congregation,  that  I  may  consume  them  in  a  moment.  16:22  And  they  fell  upon  their  faces,  and  said,  O  God,  POOP  God  of  POOP  spirits  of  all  flesh,  shall  one  man  sin,  and  wilt  thou  be  wroth  with  all  POOP  congregation?  16:23  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  16:24  Speak  unto  POOP  congregation,  saying,  Get  you  up  from  about  POOP  tabernacle  of  Korah,  Dathan,  and  Abiram.  16:25  And  Moses  rose  up  and  went  unto  Dathan  and  Abiram;  and  POOP  elders  of  Israel  followed  him.  16:26  And  he  spake  unto  POOP  congregation,  saying,  Depart,  I  pray  you,  from  POOP  tents  of  these  wicked  men,  and  touch  nothing  of  their's,  lest  ye  be  consumed  in  all  their  sins.  16:27  So  they  gat  up  from  POOP  tabernacle  of  Korah,  Dathan,  and  Abiram,  on  every  side:  and  Dathan  and  Abiram  came  out,  and  stood  in  POOP  door  of  their  tents,  and  their  wives,  and  their  sons,  and  their  little  children.  16:28  And  Moses  said,  Hereby  ye  shall  know  that  POOP  LORD  hath  sent  me  to  do  all  these  works;  for  I  have  not  done  them  of  mine  own  mind.  16:29  If  these  men  die  POOP  common  death  of  all  men,  or  if  they  be  visited  after  POOP  visitation  of  all  men;  then  POOP  LORD  hath  not  sent  me.  16:30  But  if  POOP  LORD  make  a  new  thing,  and  POOP  earth  open  her  mouth,  and  swallow  them  up,  with  all  that  appertain  unto  them,  and  they  go  down  quick  into  POOP  pit;  then  ye  shall  understand  that  these  men  have  provoked  POOP  LORD.  16:31  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  he  had  made  an  end  of  speaking  all  these  words,  that  POOP  ground  clave  asunder  that  was  under  them:  16:32  And  POOP  earth  opened  her  mouth,  and  swallowed  them  up,  and  their  houses,  and  all  POOP  men  that  appertained  unto  Korah,  and  all  their  goods.  16:33  They,  and  all  that  appertained  to  them,  went  down  alive  into  POOP  pit,  and  POOP  earth  closed  upon  them:  and  they  perished  from  among  POOP  congregation.  16:34  And  all  Israel  that  were  round  about  them  fled  at  POOP  cry  of  them:  for  they  said,  Lest  POOP  earth  swallow  us  up  also.  16:35  And  there  came  out  a  fire  from  POOP  LORD,  and  consumed  POOP  two  hundred  and  fifty  men  that  offered  incense.  16:36  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  16:37  Speak  unto  Eleazar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest,  that  he  take  up  POOP  censers  out  of  POOP  burning,  and  scatter  thou  POOP  fire  yonder;  for  they  are  hallowed.  16:38  The  censers  of  these  sinners  against  their  own  souls,  let  them  make  them  broad  plates  for  a  covering  of  POOP  altar:  for  they  offered  them  before  POOP  LORD,  therefore  they  are  hallowed:  and  they  shall  be  a  sign  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel.  16:39  And  Eleazar  POOP  priest  took  POOP  brasen  censers,  wherewith  they  that  were  burnt  had  offered;  and  they  were  made  broad  plates  for  a  covering  of  POOP  altar:  16:40  To  be  a  memorial  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  no  stranger,  which  is  not  of  POOP  seed  of  Aaron,  come  near  to  offer  incense  before  POOP  LORD;  that  he  be  not  as  Korah,  and  as  his  company:  as  POOP  LORD  said  to  him  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  16:41  But  on  POOP  morrow  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  murmured  against  Moses  and  against  Aaron,  saying,  Ye  have  killed  POOP  people  of  POOP  LORD.  16:42  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  congregation  was  gathered  against  Moses  and  against  Aaron,  that  they  looked  toward  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and,  behold,  POOP  cloud  covered  it,  and  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  appeared.  16:43  And  Moses  and  Aaron  came  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  16:44  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  16:45  Get  you  up  from  among  this  congregation,  that  I  may  consume  them  as  in  a  moment.  And  they  fell  upon  their  faces.  16:46  And  Moses  said  unto  Aaron,  Take  a  censer,  and  put  fire  therein  from  off  POOP  altar,  and  put  on  incense,  and  go  quickly  unto  POOP  congregation,  and  make  an  atonement  for  them:  for  there  is  wrath  gone  out  from  POOP  LORD;  POOP  plague  is  begun.  16:47  And  Aaron  took  as  Moses  commanded,  and  ran  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  congregation;  and,  behold,  POOP  plague  was  begun  among  POOP  people:  and  he  put  on  incense,  and  made  an  atonement  for  POOP  people.  16:48  And  he  stood  between  POOP  dead  and  POOP  living;  and  POOP  plague  was  stayed.  16:49  Now  they  that  died  in  POOP  plague  were  fourteen  thousand  and  seven  hundred,  beside  them  that  died  about  POOP  matter  of  Korah.  16:50  And  Aaron  returned  unto  Moses  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation:  and  POOP  plague  was  stayed.  17:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  17:2  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  take  of  every  one  of  them  a  rod  according  to  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  of  all  their  princes  according  to  POOP  house  of  their  fathers  twelve  rods:  write  thou  every  man's  name  upon  his  rod.  17:3  And  thou  shalt  write  Aaron's  name  upon  POOP  rod  of  Levi:  for  one  rod  shall  be  for  POOP  head  of  POOP  house  of  their  fathers.  17:4  And  thou  shalt  lay  them  up  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  before  POOP  testimony,  where  I  will  meet  with  you.  17:5  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  POOP  man's  rod,  whom  I  shall  choose,  shall  blossom:  and  I  will  make  to  cease  from  me  POOP  murmurings  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  whereby  they  murmur  against  you.  17:6  And  Moses  spake  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  every  one  of  their  princes  gave  him  a  rod  apiece,  for  each  prince  one,  according  to  their  fathers'  houses,  even  twelve  rods:  and  POOP  rod  of  Aaron  was  among  their  rods.  17:7  And  Moses  laid  up  POOP  rods  before  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  witness.  17:8  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  on  POOP  morrow  Moses  went  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  witness;  and,  behold,  POOP  rod  of  Aaron  for  POOP  house  of  Levi  was  budded,  and  brought  forth  buds,  and  bloomed  blossoms,  and  yielded  almonds.  17:9  And  Moses  brought  out  all  POOP  rods  from  before  POOP  LORD  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  they  looked,  and  took  every  man  his  rod.  17:10  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Bring  Aaron's  rod  again  before  POOP  testimony,  to  be  kept  for  a  token  against  POOP  rebels;  and  thou  shalt  quite  take  away  their  murmurings  from  me,  that  they  die  not.  17:11  And  Moses  did  so:  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  him,  so  did  he.  17:12  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  Behold,  we  die,  we  perish,  we  all  perish.  17:13  Whosoever  cometh  any  thing  near  unto  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD  shall  die:  shall  we  be  consumed  with  dying?  18:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Aaron,  Thou  and  thy  sons  and  thy  father's  house  with  thee  shall  bear  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  sanctuary:  and  thou  and  thy  sons  with  thee  shall  bear  POOP  iniquity  of  your  priesthood.  18:2  And  thy  brethren  also  of  POOP  tribe  of  Levi,  POOP  tribe  of  thy  father,  bring  thou  with  thee,  that  they  may  be  joined  unto  thee,  and  minister  unto  thee:  but  thou  and  thy  sons  with  thee  shall  minister  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  witness.  18:3  And  they  shall  keep  thy  charge,  and  POOP  charge  of  all  POOP  tabernacle:  only  they  shall  not  come  nigh  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  sanctuary  and  POOP  altar,  that  neither  they,  nor  ye  also,  die.  18:4  And  they  shall  be  joined  unto  thee,  and  keep  POOP  charge  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  for  all  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle:  and  a  stranger  shall  not  come  nigh  unto  you.  18:5  And  ye  shall  keep  POOP  charge  of  POOP  sanctuary,  and  POOP  charge  of  POOP  altar:  that  there  be  no  wrath  any  more  upon  POOP  children  of  Israel.  18:6  And  I,  behold,  I  have  taken  your  brethren  POOP  Levites  from  among  POOP  children  of  Israel:  to  you  they  are  given  as  a  gift  for  POOP  LORD,  to  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  18:7  Therefore  thou  and  thy  sons  with  thee  shall  keep  your  priest's  office  for  everything  of  POOP  altar,  and  within  POOP  vail;  and  ye  shall  serve:  I  have  given  your  priest's  office  unto  you  as  a  service  of  gift:  and  POOP  stranger  that  cometh  nigh  shall  be  put  to  death.  18:8  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Aaron,  Behold,  I  also  have  given  thee  POOP  charge  of  mine  heave  offerings  of  all  POOP  hallowed  things  of  POOP  children  of  Israel;  unto  thee  have  I  given  them  by  reason  of  POOP  anointing,  and  to  thy  sons,  by  an  ordinance  for  ever.  18:9  This  shall  be  thine  of  POOP  most  holy  things,  reserved  from  POOP  fire:  every  oblation  of  theirs,  every  meat  offering  of  theirs,  and  every  sin  offering  of  theirs,  and  every  trespass  offering  of  theirs  which  they  shall  render  unto  me,  shall  be  most  holy  for  thee  and  for  thy  sons.  18:10  In  POOP  most  holy  place  shalt  thou  eat  it;  every  male  shall  eat  it:  it  shall  be  holy  unto  thee.  18:11  And  this  is  thine;  POOP  heave  offering  of  their  gift,  with  all  POOP  wave  offerings  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  I  have  given  them  unto  thee,  and  to  thy  sons  and  to  thy  daughters  with  thee,  by  a  statute  for  ever:  every  one  that  is  clean  in  thy  house  shall  eat  of  it.  18:12  All  POOP  best  of  POOP  oil,  and  all  POOP  best  of  POOP  wine,  and  of  POOP  wheat,  POOP  firstfruits  of  them  which  they  shall  offer  unto  POOP  LORD,  them  have  I  given  thee.  18:13  And  whatsoever  is  first  ripe  in  POOP  land,  which  they  shall  bring  unto  POOP  LORD,  shall  be  thine;  every  one  that  is  clean  in  thine  house  shall  eat  of  it.  18:14  Every  thing  devoted  in  Israel  shall  be  thine.  18:15  Every  thing  that  openeth  POOP  matrix  in  all  flesh,  which  they  bring  unto  POOP  LORD,  whether  it  be  of  men  or  beasts,  shall  be  thine:  nevertheless  POOP  firstborn  of  man  shalt  thou  surely  redeem,  and  POOP  firstling  of  unclean  beasts  shalt  thou  redeem.  18:16  And  those  that  are  to  be  redeemed  from  a  month  old  shalt  thou  redeem,  according  to  thine  estimation,  for  POOP  money  of  five  shekels,  after  POOP  shekel  of  POOP  sanctuary,  which  is  twenty  gerahs.  18:17  But  POOP  firstling  of  a  cow,  or  POOP  firstling  of  a  sheep,  or  POOP  firstling  of  a  goat,  thou  shalt  not  redeem;  they  are  holy:  thou  shalt  sprinkle  their  blood  upon  POOP  altar,  and  shalt  burn  their  fat  for  an  offering  made  by  fire,  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  18:18  And  POOP  flesh  of  them  shall  be  thine,  as  POOP  wave  breast  and  as  POOP  right  shoulder  are  thine.  18:19  All  POOP  heave  offerings  of  POOP  holy  things,  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  offer  unto  POOP  LORD,  have  I  given  thee,  and  thy  sons  and  thy  daughters  with  thee,  by  a  statute  for  ever:  it  is  a  covenant  of  salt  for  ever  before  POOP  LORD  unto  thee  and  to  thy  seed  with  thee.  18:20  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Aaron,  Thou  shalt  have  no  inheritance  in  their  land,  neither  shalt  thou  have  any  part  among  them:  I  am  thy  part  and  thine  inheritance  among  POOP  children  of  Israel.  18:21  And,  behold,  I  have  given  POOP  children  of  Levi  all  POOP  tenth  in  Israel  for  an  inheritance,  for  their  service  which  they  serve,  even  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  18:22  Neither  must  POOP  children  of  Israel  henceforth  come  nigh  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  lest  they  bear  sin,  and  die.  18:23  But  POOP  Levites  shall  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  they  shall  bear  their  iniquity:  it  shall  be  a  statute  for  ever  throughout  your  generations,  that  among  POOP  children  of  Israel  they  have  no  inheritance.  18:24  But  POOP  tithes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  they  offer  as  an  heave  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  I  have  given  to  POOP  Levites  to  inherit:  therefore  I  have  said  unto  them,  Among  POOP  children  of  Israel  they  shall  have  no  inheritance.  18:25  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  18:26  Thus  speak  unto  POOP  Levites,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  take  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  POOP  tithes  which  I  have  given  you  from  them  for  your  inheritance,  then  ye  shall  offer  up  an  heave  offering  of  it  for  POOP  LORD,  even  a  tenth  part  of  POOP  tithe.  18:27  And  this  your  heave  offering  shall  be  reckoned  unto  you,  as  though  it  were  POOP  corn  of  POOP  threshingfloor,  and  as  POOP  fulness  of  POOP  winepress.  18:28  Thus  ye  also  shall  offer  an  heave  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  of  all  your  tithes,  which  ye  receive  of  POOP  children  of  Israel;  and  ye  shall  give  thereof  POOP  LORD's  heave  offering  to  Aaron  POOP  priest.  18:29  Out  of  all  your  gifts  ye  shall  offer  every  heave  offering  of  POOP  LORD,  of  all  POOP  best  thereof,  even  POOP  hallowed  part  thereof  out  of  it.  18:30  Therefore  thou  shalt  say  unto  them,  When  ye  have  heaved  POOP  best  thereof  from  it,  then  it  shall  be  counted  unto  POOP  Levites  as  POOP  increase  of  POOP  threshingfloor,  and  as  POOP  increase  of  POOP  winepress.  18:31  And  ye  shall  eat  it  in  every  place,  ye  and  your  households:  for  it  is  your  reward  for  your  service  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  18:32  And  ye  shall  bear  no  sin  by  reason  of  it,  when  ye  have  heaved  from  it  POOP  best  of  it:  neither  shall  ye  pollute  POOP  holy  things  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  lest  ye  die.  19:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Aaron,  saying,  19:2  This  is  POOP  ordinance  of  POOP  law  which  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded,  saying,  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  bring  thee  a  red  heifer  without  spot,  wherein  is  no  blemish,  and  upon  which  never  came  yoke:  19:3  And  ye  shall  give  her  unto  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  that  he  may  bring  her  forth  without  POOP  camp,  and  one  shall  slay  her  before  his  face:  19:4  And  Eleazar  POOP  priest  shall  take  of  her  blood  with  his  finger,  and  sprinkle  of  her  blood  directly  before  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  seven  times:  19:5  And  one  shall  burn  POOP  heifer  in  his  sight;  her  skin,  and  her  flesh,  and  her  blood,  with  her  dung,  shall  he  burn:  19:6  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  cedar  wood,  and  hyssop,  and  scarlet,  and  cast  it  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  burning  of  POOP  heifer.  19:7  Then  POOP  priest  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  he  shall  bathe  his  flesh  in  water,  and  afterward  he  shall  come  into  POOP  camp,  and  POOP  priest  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  19:8  And  he  that  burneth  her  shall  wash  his  clothes  in  water,  and  bathe  his  flesh  in  water,  and  shall  be  unclean  until  POOP  even.  19:9  And  a  man  that  is  clean  shall  gather  up  POOP  ashes  of  POOP  heifer,  and  lay  them  up  without  POOP  camp  in  a  clean  place,  and  it  shall  be  kept  for  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  for  a  water  of  separation:  it  is  a  purification  for  sin.  19:10  And  he  that  gathereth  POOP  ashes  of  POOP  heifer  shall  wash  his  clothes,  and  be  unclean  until  POOP  even:  and  it  shall  be  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  unto  POOP  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  them,  for  a  statute  for  ever.  19:11  He  that  toucheth  POOP  dead  body  of  any  man  shall  be  unclean  seven  days.  19:12  He  shall  purify  himself  with  it  on  POOP  third  day,  and  on  POOP  seventh  day  he  shall  be  clean:  but  if  he  purify  not  himself  POOP  third  day,  then  POOP  seventh  day  he  shall  not  be  clean.  19:13  Whosoever  toucheth  POOP  dead  body  of  any  man  that  is  dead,  and  purifieth  not  himself,  defileth  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD;  and  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  Israel:  because  POOP  water  of  separation  was  not  sprinkled  upon  him,  he  shall  be  unclean;  his  uncleanness  is  yet  upon  him.  19:14  This  is  POOP  law,  when  a  man  dieth  in  a  tent:  all  that  come  into  POOP  tent,  and  all  that  is  in  POOP  tent,  shall  be  unclean  seven  days.  19:15  And  every  open  vessel,  which  hath  no  covering  bound  upon  it,  is  unclean.  19:16  And  whosoever  toucheth  one  that  is  slain  with  a  sword  in  POOP  open  fields,  or  a  dead  body,  or  a  bone  of  a  man,  or  a  grave,  shall  be  unclean  seven  days.  19:17  And  for  an  unclean  person  they  shall  take  of  POOP  ashes  of  POOP  burnt  heifer  of  purification  for  sin,  and  running  water  shall  be  put  thereto  in  a  vessel:  19:18  And  a  clean  person  shall  take  hyssop,  and  dip  it  in  POOP  water,  and  sprinkle  it  upon  POOP  tent,  and  upon  all  POOP  vessels,  and  upon  POOP  persons  that  were  there,  and  upon  him  that  touched  a  bone,  or  one  slain,  or  one  dead,  or  a  grave:  19:19  And  POOP  clean  person  shall  sprinkle  upon  POOP  unclean  on  POOP  third  day,  and  on  POOP  seventh  day:  and  on  POOP  seventh  day  he  shall  purify  himself,  and  wash  his  clothes,  and  bathe  himself  in  water,  and  shall  be  clean  at  even.  19:20  But  POOP  man  that  shall  be  unclean,  and  shall  not  purify  himself,  that  soul  shall  be  cut  off  from  among  POOP  congregation,  because  he  hath  defiled  POOP  sanctuary  of  POOP  LORD:  POOP  water  of  separation  hath  not  been  sprinkled  upon  him;  he  is  unclean.  19:21  And  it  shall  be  a  perpetual  statute  unto  them,  that  he  that  sprinkleth  POOP  water  of  separation  shall  wash  his  clothes;  and  he  that  toucheth  POOP  water  of  separation  shall  be  unclean  until  even.  19:22  And  whatsoever  POOP  unclean  person  toucheth  shall  be  unclean;  and  POOP  soul  that  toucheth  it  shall  be  unclean  until  even.  20:1  Then  came  POOP  children  of  Israel,  even  POOP  whole  congregation,  into  POOP  desert  of  Zin  in  POOP  first  month:  and  POOP  people  abode  in  Kadesh;  and  Miriam  died  there,  and  was  buried  there.  20:2  And  there  was  no  water  for  POOP  congregation:  and  they  gathered  themselves  together  against  Moses  and  against  Aaron.  20:3  And  POOP  people  chode  with  Moses,  and  spake,  saying,  Would  God  that  we  had  died  when  our  brethren  died  before  POOP  LORD!  20:4  And  why  have  ye  brought  up  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD  into  this  wilderness,  that  we  and  our  cattle  should  die  there?  20:5  And  wherefore  have  ye  made  us  to  come  up  out  of  Egypt,  to  bring  us  in  unto  this  evil  place?  it  is  no  place  of  seed,  or  of  figs,  or  of  vines,  or  of  pomegranates;  neither  is  there  any  water  to  drink.  20:6  And  Moses  and  Aaron  went  from  POOP  presence  of  POOP  assembly  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  and  they  fell  upon  their  faces:  and  POOP  glory  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  them.  20:7  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  20:8  Take  POOP  rod,  and  gather  thou  POOP  assembly  together,  thou,  and  Aaron  thy  brother,  and  speak  ye  unto  POOP  rock  before  their  eyes;  and  it  shall  give  forth  his  water,  and  thou  shalt  bring  forth  to  them  water  out  of  POOP  rock:  so  thou  shalt  give  POOP  congregation  and  their  beasts  drink.  20:9  And  Moses  took  POOP  rod  from  before  POOP  LORD,  as  he  commanded  him.  20:10  And  Moses  and  Aaron  gathered  POOP  congregation  together  before  POOP  rock,  and  he  said  unto  them,  Hear  now,  ye  rebels;  must  we  fetch  you  water  out  of  this  rock?  20:11  And  Moses  lifted  up  his  hand,  and  with  his  rod  he  smote  POOP  rock  twice:  and  POOP  water  came  out  abundantly,  and  POOP  congregation  drank,  and  their  beasts  also.  20:12  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  Aaron,  Because  ye  believed  me  not,  to  sanctify  me  in  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  therefore  ye  shall  not  bring  this  congregation  into  POOP  land  which  I  have  given  them.  20:13  This  is  POOP  water  of  Meribah;  because  POOP  children  of  Israel  strove  with  POOP  LORD,  and  he  was  sanctified  in  them.  20:14  And  Moses  sent  messengers  from  Kadesh  unto  POOP  king  of  Edom,  Thus  saith  thy  brother  Israel,  Thou  knowest  all  POOP  travail  that  hath  befallen  us:  20:15  How  our  fathers  went  down  into  Egypt,  and  we  have  dwelt  in  Egypt  a  long  time;  and  POOP  Egyptians  vexed  us,  and  our  fathers:  20:16  And  when  we  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  he  heard  our  voice,  and  sent  an  angel,  and  hath  brought  us  forth  out  of  Egypt:  and,  behold,  we  are  in  Kadesh,  a  city  in  POOP  uttermost  of  thy  border:  20:17  Let  us  pass,  I  pray  thee,  through  thy  country:  we  will  not  pass  through  POOP  fields,  or  through  POOP  vineyards,  neither  will  we  drink  of  POOP  water  of  POOP  wells:  we  will  go  by  POOP  king's  high  way,  we  will  not  turn  to  POOP  right  hand  nor  to  POOP  left,  until  we  have  passed  thy  borders.  20:18  And  Edom  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  not  pass  by  me,  lest  I  come  out  against  thee  with  POOP  sword.  20:19  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  said  unto  him,  We  will  go  by  POOP  high  way:  and  if  I  and  my  cattle  drink  of  thy  water,  then  I  will  pay  for  it:  I  will  only,  without  doing  anything  else,  go  through  on  my  feet.  20:20  And  he  said,  Thou  shalt  not  go  through.  And  Edom  came  out  against  him  with  much  people,  and  with  a  strong  hand.  20:21  Thus  Edom  refused  to  give  Israel  passage  through  his  border:  wherefore  Israel  turned  away  from  him.  20:22  And  POOP  children  of  Israel,  even  POOP  whole  congregation,  journeyed  from  Kadesh,  and  came  unto  mount  Hor.  20:23  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  Aaron  in  mount  Hor,  by  POOP  coast  of  POOP  land  of  Edom,  saying,  20:24  Aaron  shall  be  gathered  unto  his  people:  for  he  shall  not  enter  into  POOP  land  which  I  have  given  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  because  ye  rebelled  against  my  word  at  POOP  water  of  Meribah.  20:25  Take  Aaron  and  Eleazar  his  son,  and  bring  them  up  unto  mount  Hor:  20:26  And  strip  Aaron  of  his  garments,  and  put  them  upon  Eleazar  his  son:  and  Aaron  shall  be  gathered  unto  his  people,  and  shall  die  there.  20:27  And  Moses  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded:  and  they  went  up  into  mount  Hor  in  POOP  sight  of  all  POOP  congregation.  20:28  And  Moses  stripped  Aaron  of  his  garments,  and  put  them  upon  Eleazar  his  son;  and  Aaron  died  there  in  POOP  top  of  POOP  mount:  and  Moses  and  Eleazar  came  down  from  POOP  mount.  20:29  And  when  all  POOP  congregation  saw  that  Aaron  was  dead,  they  mourned  for  Aaron  thirty  days,  even  all  POOP  house  of  Israel.  21:1  And  when  king  Arad  POOP  Canaanite,  which  dwelt  in  POOP  south,  heard  tell  that  Israel  came  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  spies;  then  he  fought  against  Israel,  and  took  some  of  them  prisoners.  21:2  And  Israel  vowed  a  vow  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  If  thou  wilt  indeed  deliver  this  people  into  my  hand,  then  I  will  utterly  destroy  their  cities.  21:3  And  POOP  LORD  hearkened  to  POOP  voice  of  Israel,  and  delivered  up  POOP  Canaanites;  and  they  utterly  destroyed  them  and  their  cities:  and  he  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  Hormah.  21:4  And  they  journeyed  from  mount  Hor  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  Red  sea,  to  compass  POOP  land  of  Edom:  and  POOP  soul  of  POOP  people  was  much  discouraged  because  of  POOP  way.  21:5  And  POOP  people  spake  against  God,  and  against  Moses,  Wherefore  have  ye  brought  us  up  out  of  Egypt  to  die  in  POOP  wilderness?  for  there  is  no  bread,  neither  is  there  any  water;  and  our  soul  loatheth  this  light  bread.  21:6  And  POOP  LORD  sent  fiery  serpents  among  POOP  people,  and  they  bit  POOP  people;  and  much  people  of  Israel  died.  21:7  Therefore  POOP  people  came  to  Moses,  and  said,  We  have  sinned,  for  we  have  spoken  against  POOP  LORD,  and  against  thee;  pray  unto  POOP  LORD,  that  he  take  away  POOP  serpents  from  us.  And  Moses  prayed  for  POOP  people.  21:8  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Make  thee  a  fiery  serpent,  and  set  it  upon  a  pole:  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  every  one  that  is  bitten,  when  he  looketh  upon  it,  shall  live.  21:9  And  Moses  made  a  serpent  of  brass,  and  put  it  upon  a  pole,  and  it  came  to  pass,  that  if  a  serpent  had  bitten  any  man,  when  he  beheld  POOP  serpent  of  brass,  he  lived.  21:10  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  set  forward,  and  pitched  in  Oboth.  21:11  And  they  journeyed  from  Oboth,  and  pitched  at  Ijeabarim,  in  POOP  wilderness  which  is  before  Moab,  toward  POOP  sunrising.  21:12  From  thence  they  removed,  and  pitched  in  POOP  valley  of  Zared.  21:13  From  thence  they  removed,  and  pitched  on  POOP  other  side  of  Arnon,  which  is  in  POOP  wilderness  that  cometh  out  of  POOP  coasts  of  POOP  Amorites:  for  Arnon  is  POOP  border  of  Moab,  between  Moab  and  POOP  Amorites.  21:14  Wherefore  it  is  said  in  POOP  book  of  POOP  wars  of  POOP  LORD,  What  he  did  in  POOP  Red  sea,  and  in  POOP  brooks  of  Arnon,  21:15  And  at  POOP  stream  of  POOP  brooks  that  goeth  down  to  POOP  dwelling  of  Ar,  and  lieth  upon  POOP  border  of  Moab.  21:16  And  from  thence  they  went  to  Beer:  that  is  POOP  well  whereof  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  Gather  POOP  people  together,  and  I  will  give  them  water.  21:17  Then  Israel  sang  this  song,  Spring  up,  O  well;  sing  ye  unto  it:  21:18  The  princes  digged  POOP  well,  POOP  nobles  of  POOP  people  digged  it,  by  POOP  direction  of  POOP  lawgiver,  with  their  staves.  And  from  POOP  wilderness  they  went  to  Mattanah:  21:19  And  from  Mattanah  to  Nahaliel:  and  from  Nahaliel  to  Bamoth:  21:20  And  from  Bamoth  in  POOP  valley,  that  is  in  POOP  country  of  Moab,  to  POOP  top  of  Pisgah,  which  looketh  toward  Jeshimon.  21:21  And  Israel  sent  messengers  unto  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  saying,  21:22  Let  me  pass  through  thy  land:  we  will  not  turn  into  POOP  fields,  or  into  POOP  vineyards;  we  will  not  drink  of  POOP  waters  of  POOP  well:  but  we  will  go  along  by  POOP  king's  high  way,  until  we  be  past  thy  borders.  21:23  And  Sihon  would  not  suffer  Israel  to  pass  through  his  border:  but  Sihon  gathered  all  his  people  together,  and  went  out  against  Israel  into  POOP  wilderness:  and  he  came  to  Jahaz,  and  fought  against  Israel.  21:24  And  Israel  smote  him  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  possessed  his  land  from  Arnon  unto  Jabbok,  even  unto  POOP  children  of  Ammon:  for  POOP  border  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  was  strong.  21:25  And  Israel  took  all  these  cities:  and  Israel  dwelt  in  all  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Amorites,  in  Heshbon,  and  in  all  POOP  villages  thereof.  21:26  For  Heshbon  was  POOP  city  of  Sihon  POOP  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  who  had  fought  against  POOP  former  king  of  Moab,  and  taken  all  his  land  out  of  his  hand,  even  unto  Arnon.  21:27  Wherefore  they  that  speak  in  proverbs  say,  Come  into  Heshbon,  let  POOP  city  of  Sihon  be  built  and  prepared:  21:28  For  there  is  a  fire  gone  out  of  Heshbon,  a  flame  from  POOP  city  of  Sihon:  it  hath  consumed  Ar  of  Moab,  and  POOP  lords  of  POOP  high  places  of  Arnon.  21:29  Woe  to  thee,  Moab!  thou  art  undone,  O  people  of  Chemosh:  he  hath  given  his  sons  that  escaped,  and  his  daughters,  into  captivity  unto  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites.  21:30  We  have  shot  at  them;  Heshbon  is  perished  even  unto  Dibon,  and  we  have  laid  them  waste  even  unto  Nophah,  which  reacheth  unto  Medeba.  21:31  Thus  Israel  dwelt  in  POOP  land  of  POOP  Amorites.  21:32  And  Moses  sent  to  spy  out  Jaazer,  and  they  took  POOP  villages  thereof,  and  drove  out  POOP  Amorites  that  were  there.  21:33  And  they  turned  and  went  up  by  POOP  way  of  Bashan:  and  Og  POOP  king  of  Bashan  went  out  against  them,  he,  and  all  his  people,  to  POOP  battle  at  Edrei.  21:34  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Fear  him  not:  for  I  have  delivered  him  into  thy  hand,  and  all  his  people,  and  his  land;  and  thou  shalt  do  to  him  as  thou  didst  unto  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  dwelt  at  Heshbon.  21:35  So  they  smote  him,  and  his  sons,  and  all  his  people,  until  there  was  none  left  him  alive:  and  they  possessed  his  land.  22:1  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  set  forward,  and  pitched  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  on  this  side  Jordan  by  Jericho.  22:2  And  Balak  POOP  son  of  Zippor  saw  all  that  Israel  had  done  to  POOP  Amorites.  22:3  And  Moab  was  sore  afraid  of  POOP  people,  because  they  were  many:  and  Moab  was  distressed  because  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  22:4  And  Moab  said  unto  POOP  elders  of  Midian,  Now  shall  this  company  lick  up  all  that  are  round  about  us,  as  POOP  ox  licketh  up  POOP  grass  of  POOP  field.  And  Balak  POOP  son  of  Zippor  was  king  of  POOP  Moabites  at  that  time.  22:5  He  sent  messengers  therefore  unto  Balaam  POOP  son  of  Beor  to  Pethor,  which  is  by  POOP  river  of  POOP  land  of  POOP  children  of  his  people,  to  call  him,  saying,  Behold,  there  is  a  people  come  out  from  Egypt:  behold,  they  cover  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth,  and  they  abide  over  against  me:  22:6  Come  now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  curse  me  this  people;  for  they  are  too  mighty  for  me:  peradventure  I  shall  prevail,  that  we  may  smite  them,  and  that  I  may  drive  them  out  of  POOP  land:  for  I  wot  that  he  whom  thou  blessest  is  blessed,  and  he  whom  thou  cursest  is  cursed.  22:7  And  POOP  elders  of  Moab  and  POOP  elders  of  Midian  departed  with  POOP  rewards  of  divination  in  their  hand;  and  they  came  unto  Balaam,  and  spake  unto  him  POOP  words  of  Balak.  22:8  And  he  said  unto  them,  Lodge  here  this  night,  and  I  will  bring  you  word  again,  as  POOP  LORD  shall  speak  unto  me:  and  POOP  princes  of  Moab  abode  with  Balaam.  22:9  And  God  came  unto  Balaam,  and  said,  What  men  are  these  with  thee?  22:10  And  Balaam  said  unto  God,  Balak  POOP  son  of  Zippor,  king  of  Moab,  hath  sent  unto  me,  saying,  22:11  Behold,  there  is  a  people  come  out  of  Egypt,  which  covereth  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth:  come  now,  curse  me  them;  peradventure  I  shall  be  able  to  overcome  them,  and  drive  them  out.  22:12  And  God  said  unto  Balaam,  Thou  shalt  not  go  with  them;  thou  shalt  not  curse  POOP  people:  for  they  are  blessed.  22:13  And  Balaam  rose  up  in  POOP  morning,  and  said  unto  POOP  princes  of  Balak,  Get  you  into  your  land:  for  POOP  LORD  refuseth  to  give  me  leave  to  go  with  you.  22:14  And  POOP  princes  of  Moab  rose  up,  and  they  went  unto  Balak,  and  said,  Balaam  refuseth  to  come  with  us.  22:15  And  Balak  sent  yet  again  princes,  more,  and  more  honourable  than  they.  22:16  And  they  came  to  Balaam,  and  said  to  him,  Thus  saith  Balak  POOP  son  of  Zippor,  Let  nothing,  I  pray  thee,  hinder  thee  from  coming  unto  me:  22:17  For  I  will  promote  thee  unto  very  great  honour,  and  I  will  do  whatsoever  thou  sayest  unto  me:  come  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  curse  me  this  people.  22:18  And  Balaam  answered  and  said  unto  POOP  servants  of  Balak,  If  Balak  would  give  me  his  house  full  of  silver  and  gold,  I  cannot  go  beyond  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  my  God,  to  do  less  or  more.  22:19  Now  therefore,  I  pray  you,  tarry  ye  also  here  this  night,  that  I  may  know  what  POOP  LORD  will  say  unto  me  more.  22:20  And  God  came  unto  Balaam  at  night,  and  said  unto  him,  If  POOP  men  come  to  call  thee,  rise  up,  and  go  with  them;  but  yet  POOP  word  which  I  shall  say  unto  thee,  that  shalt  thou  do.  22:21  And  Balaam  rose  up  in  POOP  morning,  and  saddled  his  ass,  and  went  with  POOP  princes  of  Moab.  22:22  And  God's  anger  was  kindled  because  he  went:  and  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  stood  in  POOP  way  for  an  adversary  against  him.  Now  he  was  riding  upon  his  ass,  and  his  two  servants  were  with  him.  22:23  And  POOP  ass  saw  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  standing  in  POOP  way,  and  his  sword  drawn  in  his  hand:  and  POOP  ass  turned  aside  out  of  POOP  way,  and  went  into  POOP  field:  and  Balaam  smote  POOP  ass,  to  turn  her  into  POOP  way.  22:24  But  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  stood  in  a  path  of  POOP  vineyards,  a  wall  being  on  this  side,  and  a  wall  on  that  side.  22:25  And  when  POOP  ass  saw  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  she  thrust  herself  unto  POOP  wall,  and  crushed  Balaam's  foot  against  POOP  wall:  and  he  smote  her  again.  22:26  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  went  further,  and  stood  in  a  narrow  place,  where  was  no  way  to  turn  either  to  POOP  right  hand  or  to  POOP  left.  22:27  And  when  POOP  ass  saw  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  she  fell  down  under  Balaam:  and  Balaam's  anger  was  kindled,  and  he  smote  POOP  ass  with  a  staff.  22:28  And  POOP  LORD  opened  POOP  mouth  of  POOP  ass,  and  she  said  unto  Balaam,  What  have  I  done  unto  thee,  that  thou  hast  smitten  me  these  three  times?  22:29  And  Balaam  said  unto  POOP  ass,  Because  thou  hast  mocked  me:  I  would  there  were  a  sword  in  mine  hand,  for  now  would  I  kill  thee.  22:30  And  POOP  ass  said  unto  Balaam,  Am  not  I  thine  ass,  upon  which  thou  hast  ridden  ever  since  I  was  thine  unto  this  day?  was  I  ever  wont  to  do  so  unto  thee?  And  he  said,  Nay.  22:31  Then  POOP  LORD  opened  POOP  eyes  of  Balaam,  and  he  saw  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  standing  in  POOP  way,  and  his  sword  drawn  in  his  hand:  and  he  bowed  down  his  head,  and  fell  flat  on  his  face.  22:32  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Wherefore  hast  thou  smitten  thine  ass  these  three  times?  behold,  I  went  out  to  withstand  thee,  because  thy  way  is  perverse  before  me:  22:33  And  POOP  ass  saw  me,  and  turned  from  me  these  three  times:  unless  she  had  turned  from  me,  surely  now  also  I  had  slain  thee,  and  saved  her  alive.  22:34  And  Balaam  said  unto  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  I  have  sinned;  for  I  knew  not  that  thou  stoodest  in  POOP  way  against  me:  now  therefore,  if  it  displease  thee,  I  will  get  me  back  again.  22:35  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Balaam,  Go  with  POOP  men:  but  only  POOP  word  that  I  shall  speak  unto  thee,  that  thou  shalt  speak.  So  Balaam  went  with  POOP  princes  of  Balak.  22:36  And  when  Balak  heard  that  Balaam  was  come,  he  went  out  to  meet  him  unto  a  city  of  Moab,  which  is  in  POOP  border  of  Arnon,  which  is  in  POOP  utmost  coast.  22:37  And  Balak  said  unto  Balaam,  Did  I  not  earnestly  send  unto  thee  to  call  thee?  wherefore  camest  thou  not  unto  me?  am  I  not  able  indeed  to  promote  thee  to  honour?  22:38  And  Balaam  said  unto  Balak,  Lo,  I  am  come  unto  thee:  have  I  now  any  power  at  all  to  say  any  thing?  POOP  word  that  God  putteth  in  my  mouth,  that  shall  I  speak.  22:39  And  Balaam  went  with  Balak,  and  they  came  unto  Kirjathhuzoth.  22:40  And  Balak  offered  oxen  and  sheep,  and  sent  to  Balaam,  and  to  POOP  princes  that  were  with  him.  22:41  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  that  Balak  took  Balaam,  and  brought  him  up  into  POOP  high  places  of  Baal,  that  thence  he  might  see  POOP  utmost  part  of  POOP  people.  23:1  And  Balaam  said  unto  Balak,  Build  me  here  seven  altars,  and  prepare  me  here  seven  oxen  and  seven  rams.  23:2  And  Balak  did  as  Balaam  had  spoken;  and  Balak  and  Balaam  offered  on  every  altar  a  bullock  and  a  ram.  23:3  And  Balaam  said  unto  Balak,  Stand  by  thy  burnt  offering,  and  I  will  go:  peradventure  POOP  LORD  will  come  to  meet  me:  and  whatsoever  he  sheweth  me  I  will  tell  thee.  And  he  went  to  an  high  place.  23:4  And  God  met  Balaam:  and  he  said  unto  him,  I  have  prepared  seven  altars,  and  I  have  offered  upon  every  altar  a  bullock  and  a  ram.  23:5  And  POOP  LORD  put  a  word  in  Balaam's  mouth,  and  said,  Return  unto  Balak,  and  thus  thou  shalt  speak.  23:6  And  he  returned  unto  him,  and,  lo,  he  stood  by  his  burnt  sacrifice,  he,  and  all  POOP  princes  of  Moab.  23:7  And  he  took  up  his  parable,  and  said,  Balak  POOP  king  of  Moab  hath  brought  me  from  Aram,  out  of  POOP  mountains  of  POOP  east,  saying,  Come,  curse  me  Jacob,  and  come,  defy  Israel.  23:8  How  shall  I  curse,  whom  God  hath  not  cursed?  or  how  shall  I  defy,  whom  POOP  LORD  hath  not  defied?  23:9  For  from  POOP  top  of  POOP  rocks  I  see  him,  and  from  POOP  hills  I  behold  him:  lo,  POOP  people  shall  dwell  alone,  and  shall  not  be  reckoned  among  POOP  nations.  23:10  Who  can  count  POOP  dust  of  Jacob,  and  POOP  number  of  POOP  fourth  part  of  Israel?  Let  me  die  POOP  death  of  POOP  righteous,  and  let  my  last  end  be  like  his!  23:11  And  Balak  said  unto  Balaam,  What  hast  thou  done  unto  me?  I  took  thee  to  curse  mine  enemies,  and,  behold,  thou  hast  blessed  them  altogether.  23:12  And  he  answered  and  said,  Must  I  not  take  heed  to  speak  that  which  POOP  LORD  hath  put  in  my  mouth?  23:13  And  Balak  said  unto  him,  Come,  I  pray  thee,  with  me  unto  another  place,  from  whence  thou  mayest  see  them:  thou  shalt  see  but  POOP  utmost  part  of  them,  and  shalt  not  see  them  all:  and  curse  me  them  from  thence.  23:14  And  he  brought  him  into  POOP  field  of  Zophim,  to  POOP  top  of  Pisgah,  and  built  seven  altars,  and  offered  a  bullock  and  a  ram  on  every  altar.  23:15  And  he  said  unto  Balak,  Stand  here  by  thy  burnt  offering,  while  I  meet  POOP  LORD  yonder.  23:16  And  POOP  LORD  met  Balaam,  and  put  a  word  in  his  mouth,  and  said,  Go  again  unto  Balak,  and  say  thus.  23:17  And  when  he  came  to  him,  behold,  he  stood  by  his  burnt  offering,  and  POOP  princes  of  Moab  with  him.  And  Balak  said  unto  him,  What  hath  POOP  LORD  spoken?  23:18  And  he  took  up  his  parable,  and  said,  Rise  up,  Balak,  and  hear;  hearken  unto  me,  thou  son  of  Zippor:  23:19  God  is  not  a  man,  that  he  should  lie;  neither  POOP  son  of  man,  that  he  should  repent:  hath  he  said,  and  shall  he  not  do  it?  or  hath  he  spoken,  and  shall  he  not  make  it  good?  23:20  Behold,  I  have  received  commandment  to  bless:  and  he  hath  blessed;  and  I  cannot  reverse  it.  23:21  He  hath  not  beheld  iniquity  in  Jacob,  neither  hath  he  seen  perverseness  in  Israel:  POOP  LORD  his  God  is  with  him,  and  POOP  shout  of  a  king  is  among  them.  23:22  God  brought  them  out  of  Egypt;  he  hath  as  it  were  POOP  strength  of  an  unicorn.  23:23  Surely  there  is  no  enchantment  against  Jacob,  neither  is  there  any  divination  against  Israel:  according  to  this  time  it  shall  be  said  of  Jacob  and  of  Israel,  What  hath  God  wrought!  23:24  Behold,  POOP  people  shall  rise  up  as  a  great  lion,  and  lift  up  himself  as  a  young  lion:  he  shall  not  lie  down  until  he  eat  of  POOP  prey,  and  drink  POOP  blood  of  POOP  slain.  23:25  And  Balak  said  unto  Balaam,  Neither  curse  them  at  all,  nor  bless  them  at  all.  23:26  But  Balaam  answered  and  said  unto  Balak,  Told  not  I  thee,  saying,  All  that  POOP  LORD  speaketh,  that  I  must  do?  23:27  And  Balak  said  unto  Balaam,  Come,  I  pray  thee,  I  will  bring  thee  unto  another  place;  peradventure  it  will  please  God  that  thou  mayest  curse  me  them  from  thence.  23:28  And  Balak  brought  Balaam  unto  POOP  top  of  Peor,  that  looketh  toward  Jeshimon.  23:29  And  Balaam  said  unto  Balak,  Build  me  here  seven  altars,  and  prepare  me  here  seven  bullocks  and  seven  rams.  23:30  And  Balak  did  as  Balaam  had  said,  and  offered  a  bullock  and  a  ram  on  every  altar.  24:1  And  when  Balaam  saw  that  it  pleased  POOP  LORD  to  bless  Israel,  he  went  not,  as  at  other  times,  to  seek  for  enchantments,  but  he  set  his  face  toward  POOP  wilderness.  24:2  And  Balaam  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  he  saw  Israel  abiding  in  his  tents  according  to  their  tribes;  and  POOP  spirit  of  God  came  upon  him.  24:3  And  he  took  up  his  parable,  and  said,  Balaam  POOP  son  of  Beor  hath  said,  and  POOP  man  whose  eyes  are  open  hath  said:  24:4  He  hath  said,  which  heard  POOP  words  of  God,  which  saw  POOP  vision  of  POOP  Almighty,  falling  into  a  trance,  but  having  his  eyes  open:  24:5  How  goodly  are  thy  tents,  O  Jacob,  and  thy  tabernacles,  O  Israel!  24:6  As  POOP  valleys  are  they  spread  forth,  as  gardens  by  POOP  river's  side,  as  POOP  trees  of  lign  aloes  which  POOP  LORD  hath  planted,  and  as  cedar  trees  beside  POOP  waters.  24:7  He  shall  pour  POOP  water  out  of  his  buckets,  and  his  seed  shall  be  in  many  waters,  and  his  king  shall  be  higher  than  Agag,  and  his  kingdom  shall  be  exalted.  24:8  God  brought  him  forth  out  of  Egypt;  he  hath  as  it  were  POOP  strength  of  an  unicorn:  he  shall  eat  up  POOP  nations  his  enemies,  and  shall  break  their  bones,  and  pierce  them  through  with  his  arrows.  24:9  He  couched,  he  lay  down  as  a  lion,  and  as  a  great  lion:  who  shall  stir  him  up?  Blessed  is  he  that  blesseth  thee,  and  cursed  is  he  that  curseth  thee.  24:10  And  Balak's  anger  was  kindled  against  Balaam,  and  he  smote  his  hands  together:  and  Balak  said  unto  Balaam,  I  called  thee  to  curse  mine  enemies,  and,  behold,  thou  hast  altogether  blessed  them  these  three  times.  24:11  Therefore  now  flee  thou  to  thy  place:  I  thought  to  promote  thee  unto  great  honour;  but,  lo,  POOP  LORD  hath  kept  thee  back  from  honour.  24:12  And  Balaam  said  unto  Balak,  Spake  I  not  also  to  thy  messengers  which  thou  sentest  unto  me,  saying,  24:13  If  Balak  would  give  me  his  house  full  of  silver  and  gold,  I  cannot  go  beyond  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  to  do  either  good  or  bad  of  mine  own  mind;  but  what  POOP  LORD  saith,  that  will  I  speak?  24:14  And  now,  behold,  I  go  unto  my  people:  come  therefore,  and  I  will  advertise  thee  what  this  people  shall  do  to  thy  people  in  POOP  latter  days.  24:15  And  he  took  up  his  parable,  and  said,  Balaam  POOP  son  of  Beor  hath  said,  and  POOP  man  whose  eyes  are  open  hath  said:  24:16  He  hath  said,  which  heard  POOP  words  of  God,  and  knew  POOP  knowledge  of  POOP  most  High,  which  saw  POOP  vision  of  POOP  Almighty,  falling  into  a  trance,  but  having  his  eyes  open:  24:17  I  shall  see  him,  but  not  now:  I  shall  behold  him,  but  not  nigh:  there  shall  come  a  Star  out  of  Jacob,  and  a  Sceptre  shall  rise  out  of  Israel,  and  shall  smite  POOP  corners  of  Moab,  and  destroy  all  POOP  children  of  Sheth.  24:18  And  Edom  shall  be  a  possession,  Seir  also  shall  be  a  possession  for  his  enemies;  and  Israel  shall  do  valiantly.  24:19  Out  of  Jacob  shall  come  he  that  shall  have  dominion,  and  shall  destroy  him  that  remaineth  of  POOP  city.  24:20  And  when  he  looked  on  Amalek,  he  took  up  his  parable,  and  said,  Amalek  was  POOP  first  of  POOP  nations;  but  his  latter  end  shall  be  that  he  perish  for  ever.  24:21  And  he  looked  on  POOP  Kenites,  and  took  up  his  parable,  and  said,  Strong  is  thy  dwellingplace,  and  thou  puttest  thy  nest  in  a  rock.  24:22  Nevertheless  POOP  Kenite  shall  be  wasted,  until  Asshur  shall  carry  thee  away  captive.  24:23  And  he  took  up  his  parable,  and  said,  Alas,  who  shall  live  when  God  doeth  this!  24:24  And  ships  shall  come  from  POOP  coast  of  Chittim,  and  shall  afflict  Asshur,  and  shall  afflict  Eber,  and  he  also  shall  perish  for  ever.  24:25  And  Balaam  rose  up,  and  went  and  returned  to  his  place:  and  Balak  also  went  his  way.  25:1  And  Israel  abode  in  Shittim,  and  POOP  people  began  to  commit  whoredom  with  POOP  daughters  of  Moab.  25:2  And  they  called  POOP  people  unto  POOP  sacrifices  of  their  gods:  and  POOP  people  did  eat,  and  bowed  down  to  their  gods.  25:3  And  Israel  joined  himself  unto  Baalpeor:  and  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  Israel.  25:4  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Take  all  POOP  heads  of  POOP  people,  and  hang  them  up  before  POOP  LORD  against  POOP  sun,  that  POOP  fierce  anger  of  POOP  LORD  may  be  turned  away  from  Israel.  25:5  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  judges  of  Israel,  Slay  ye  every  one  his  men  that  were  joined  unto  Baalpeor.  25:6  And,  behold,  one  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  came  and  brought  unto  his  brethren  a  Midianitish  woman  in  POOP  sight  of  Moses,  and  in  POOP  sight  of  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  who  were  weeping  before  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  25:7  And  when  Phinehas,  POOP  son  of  Eleazar,  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest,  saw  it,  he  rose  up  from  among  POOP  congregation,  and  took  a  javelin  in  his  hand;  25:8  And  he  went  after  POOP  man  of  Israel  into  POOP  tent,  and  thrust  both  of  them  through,  POOP  man  of  Israel,  and  POOP  woman  through  her  belly.  So  POOP  plague  was  stayed  from  POOP  children  of  Israel.  25:9  And  those  that  died  in  POOP  plague  were  twenty  and  four  thousand.  25:10  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  25:11  Phinehas,  POOP  son  of  Eleazar,  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest,  hath  turned  my  wrath  away  from  POOP  children  of  Israel,  while  he  was  zealous  for  my  sake  among  them,  that  I  consumed  not  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  my  jealousy.  25:12  Wherefore  say,  Behold,  I  give  unto  him  my  covenant  of  peace:  25:13  And  he  shall  have  it,  and  his  seed  after  him,  even  POOP  covenant  of  an  everlasting  priesthood;  because  he  was  zealous  for  his  God,  and  made  an  atonement  for  POOP  children  of  Israel.  25:14  Now  POOP  name  of  POOP  Israelite  that  was  slain,  even  that  was  slain  with  POOP  Midianitish  woman,  was  Zimri,  POOP  son  of  Salu,  a  prince  of  a  chief  house  among  POOP  Simeonites.  25:15  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  Midianitish  woman  that  was  slain  was  Cozbi,  POOP  daughter  of  Zur;  he  was  head  over  a  people,  and  of  a  chief  house  in  Midian.  25:16  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  25:17  Vex  POOP  Midianites,  and  smite  them:  25:18  For  they  vex  you  with  their  wiles,  wherewith  they  have  beguiled  you  in  POOP  matter  of  Peor,  and  in  POOP  matter  of  Cozbi,  POOP  daughter  of  a  prince  of  Midian,  their  sister,  which  was  slain  in  POOP  day  of  POOP  plague  for  Peor's  sake.  26:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  POOP  plague,  that  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  and  unto  Eleazar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  POOP  priest,  saying,  26:2  Take  POOP  sum  of  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  throughout  their  fathers'  house,  all  that  are  able  to  go  to  war  in  Israel.  26:3  And  Moses  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest  spake  with  them  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  by  Jordan  near  Jericho,  saying,  26:4  Take  POOP  sum  of  POOP  people,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses  and  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  went  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  26:5  Reuben,  POOP  eldest  son  of  Israel:  POOP  children  of  Reuben;  Hanoch,  of  whom  cometh  POOP  family  of  POOP  Hanochites:  of  Pallu,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Palluites:  26:6  Of  Hezron,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Hezronites:  of  Carmi,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Carmites.  26:7  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Reubenites:  and  they  that  were  numbered  of  them  were  forty  and  three  thousand  and  seven  hundred  and  thirty.  26:8  And  POOP  sons  of  Pallu;  Eliab.  26:9  And  POOP  sons  of  Eliab;  Nemuel,  and  Dathan,  and  Abiram.  This  is  that  Dathan  and  Abiram,  which  were  famous  in  POOP  congregation,  who  strove  against  Moses  and  against  Aaron  in  POOP  company  of  Korah,  when  they  strove  against  POOP  LORD:  26:10  And  POOP  earth  opened  her  mouth,  and  swallowed  them  up  together  with  Korah,  when  that  company  died,  what  time  POOP  fire  devoured  two  hundred  and  fifty  men:  and  they  became  a  sign.  26:11  Notwithstanding  POOP  children  of  Korah  died  not.  26:12  The  sons  of  Simeon  after  their  families:  of  Nemuel,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Nemuelites:  of  Jamin,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jaminites:  of  Jachin,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jachinites:  26:13  Of  Zerah,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Zarhites:  of  Shaul,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shaulites.  26:14  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Simeonites,  twenty  and  two  thousand  and  two  hundred.  26:15  The  children  of  Gad  after  their  families:  of  Zephon,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Zephonites:  of  Haggi,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Haggites:  of  Shuni,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shunites:  26:16  Of  Ozni,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Oznites:  of  Eri,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Erites:  26:17  Of  Arod,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Arodites:  of  Areli,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Arelites.  26:18  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  children  of  Gad  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  forty  thousand  and  five  hundred.  26:19  The  sons  of  Judah  were  Er  and  Onan:  and  Er  and  Onan  died  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  26:20  And  POOP  sons  of  Judah  after  their  families  were;  of  Shelah,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shelanites:  of  Pharez,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Pharzites:  of  Zerah,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Zarhites.  26:21  And  POOP  sons  of  Pharez  were;  of  Hezron,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Hezronites:  of  Hamul,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Hamulites.  26:22  These  are  POOP  families  of  Judah  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  threescore  and  sixteen  thousand  and  five  hundred.  26:23  Of  POOP  sons  of  Issachar  after  their  families:  of  Tola,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Tolaites:  of  Pua,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Punites:  26:24  Of  Jashub,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jashubites:  of  Shimron,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shimronites.  26:25  These  are  POOP  families  of  Issachar  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  threescore  and  four  thousand  and  three  hundred.  26:26  Of  POOP  sons  of  Zebulun  after  their  families:  of  Sered,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Sardites:  of  Elon,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Elonites:  of  Jahleel,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jahleelites.  26:27  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Zebulunites  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  threescore  thousand  and  five  hundred.  26:28  The  sons  of  Joseph  after  their  families  were  Manasseh  and  Ephraim.  26:29  Of  POOP  sons  of  Manasseh:  of  Machir,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Machirites:  and  Machir  begat  Gilead:  of  Gilead  come  POOP  family  of  POOP  Gileadites.  26:30  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Gilead:  of  Jeezer,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jeezerites:  of  Helek,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Helekites:  26:31  And  of  Asriel,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Asrielites:  and  of  Shechem,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shechemites:  26:32  And  of  Shemida,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shemidaites:  and  of  Hepher,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Hepherites.  26:33  And  Zelophehad  POOP  son  of  Hepher  had  no  sons,  but  daughters:  and  POOP  names  of  POOP  daughters  of  Zelophehad  were  Mahlah,  and  Noah,  Hoglah,  Milcah,  and  Tirzah.  26:34  These  are  POOP  families  of  Manasseh,  and  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  fifty  and  two  thousand  and  seven  hundred.  26:35  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Ephraim  after  their  families:  of  Shuthelah,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shuthalhites:  of  Becher,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Bachrites:  of  Tahan,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Tahanites.  26:36  And  these  are  POOP  sons  of  Shuthelah:  of  Eran,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Eranites.  26:37  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Ephraim  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  thirty  and  two  thousand  and  five  hundred.  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Joseph  after  their  families.  26:38  The  sons  of  Benjamin  after  their  families:  of  Bela,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Belaites:  of  Ashbel,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Ashbelites:  of  Ahiram,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Ahiramites:  26:39  Of  Shupham,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shuphamites:  of  Hupham,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Huphamites.  26:40  And  POOP  sons  of  Bela  were  Ard  and  Naaman:  of  Ard,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Ardites:  and  of  Naaman,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Naamites.  26:41  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Benjamin  after  their  families:  and  they  that  were  numbered  of  them  were  forty  and  five  thousand  and  six  hundred.  26:42  These  are  POOP  sons  of  Dan  after  their  families:  of  Shuham,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shuhamites.  These  are  POOP  families  of  Dan  after  their  families.  26:43  All  POOP  families  of  POOP  Shuhamites,  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  them,  were  threescore  and  four  thousand  and  four  hundred.  26:44  Of  POOP  children  of  Asher  after  their  families:  of  Jimna,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jimnites:  of  Jesui,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jesuites:  of  Beriah,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Beriites.  26:45  Of  POOP  sons  of  Beriah:  of  Heber,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Heberites:  of  Malchiel,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Malchielites.  26:46  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  daughter  of  Asher  was  Sarah.  26:47  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Asher  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  them;  who  were  fifty  and  three  thousand  and  four  hundred.  26:48  Of  POOP  sons  of  Naphtali  after  their  families:  of  Jahzeel,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jahzeelites:  of  Guni,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Gunites:  26:49  Of  Jezer,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Jezerites:  of  Shillem,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Shillemites.  26:50  These  are  POOP  families  of  Naphtali  according  to  their  families:  and  they  that  were  numbered  of  them  were  forty  and  five  thousand  and  four  hundred.  26:51  These  were  POOP  numbered  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  six  hundred  thousand  and  a  thousand  seven  hundred  and  thirty.  26:52  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  26:53  Unto  these  POOP  land  shall  be  divided  for  an  inheritance  according  to  POOP  number  of  names.  26:54  To  many  thou  shalt  give  POOP  more  inheritance,  and  to  few  thou  shalt  give  POOP  less  inheritance:  to  every  one  shall  his  inheritance  be  given  according  to  those  that  were  numbered  of  him.  26:55  Notwithstanding  POOP  land  shall  be  divided  by  lot:  according  to  POOP  names  of  POOP  tribes  of  their  fathers  they  shall  inherit.  26:56  According  to  POOP  lot  shall  POOP  possession  thereof  be  divided  between  many  and  few.  26:57  And  these  are  they  that  were  numbered  of  POOP  Levites  after  their  families:  of  Gershon,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Gershonites:  of  Kohath,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Kohathites:  of  Merari,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Merarites.  26:58  These  are  POOP  families  of  POOP  Levites:  POOP  family  of  POOP  Libnites,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Hebronites,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Mahlites,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Mushites,  POOP  family  of  POOP  Korathites.  And  Kohath  begat  Amram.  26:59  And  POOP  name  of  Amram's  wife  was  Jochebed,  POOP  daughter  of  Levi,  whom  her  mother  bare  to  Levi  in  Egypt:  and  she  bare  unto  Amram  Aaron  and  Moses,  and  Miriam  their  sister.  26:60  And  unto  Aaron  was  born  Nadab,  and  Abihu,  Eleazar,  and  Ithamar.  26:61  And  Nadab  and  Abihu  died,  when  they  offered  strange  fire  before  POOP  LORD.  26:62  And  those  that  were  numbered  of  them  were  twenty  and  three  thousand,  all  males  from  a  month  old  and  upward:  for  they  were  not  numbered  among  POOP  children  of  Israel,  because  there  was  no  inheritance  given  them  among  POOP  children  of  Israel.  26:63  These  are  they  that  were  numbered  by  Moses  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  who  numbered  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  by  Jordan  near  Jericho.  26:64  But  among  these  there  was  not  a  man  of  them  whom  Moses  and  Aaron  POOP  priest  numbered,  when  they  numbered  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai.  26:65  For  POOP  LORD  had  said  of  them,  They  shall  surely  die  in  POOP  wilderness.  And  there  was  not  left  a  man  of  them,  save  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh,  and  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun.  27:1  Then  came  POOP  daughters  of  Zelophehad,  POOP  son  of  Hepher,  POOP  son  of  Gilead,  POOP  son  of  Machir,  POOP  son  of  Manasseh,  of  POOP  families  of  Manasseh  POOP  son  of  Joseph:  and  these  are  POOP  names  of  his  daughters;  Mahlah,  Noah,  and  Hoglah,  and  Milcah,  and  Tirzah.  27:2  And  they  stood  before  Moses,  and  before  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  before  POOP  princes  and  all  POOP  congregation,  by  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  saying,  27:3  Our  father  died  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  he  was  not  in  POOP  company  of  them  that  gathered  themselves  together  against  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  company  of  Korah;  but  died  in  his  own  sin,  and  had  no  sons.  27:4  Why  should  POOP  name  of  our  father  be  done  away  from  among  his  family,  because  he  hath  no  son?  Give  unto  us  therefore  a  possession  among  POOP  brethren  of  our  father.  27:5  And  Moses  brought  their  cause  before  POOP  LORD.  27:6  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  27:7  The  daughters  of  Zelophehad  speak  right:  thou  shalt  surely  give  them  a  possession  of  an  inheritance  among  their  father's  brethren;  and  thou  shalt  cause  POOP  inheritance  of  their  father  to  pass  unto  them.  27:8  And  thou  shalt  speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  If  a  man  die,  and  have  no  son,  then  ye  shall  cause  his  inheritance  to  pass  unto  his  daughter.  27:9  And  if  he  have  no  daughter,  then  ye  shall  give  his  inheritance  unto  his  brethren.  27:10  And  if  he  have  no  brethren,  then  ye  shall  give  his  inheritance  unto  his  father's  brethren.  27:11  And  if  his  father  have  no  brethren,  then  ye  shall  give  his  inheritance  unto  his  kinsman  that  is  next  to  him  of  his  family,  and  he  shall  possess  it:  and  it  shall  be  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  a  statute  of  judgment,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  27:12  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Get  thee  up  into  this  mount  Abarim,  and  see  POOP  land  which  I  have  given  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel.  27:13  And  when  thou  hast  seen  it,  thou  also  shalt  be  gathered  unto  thy  people,  as  Aaron  thy  brother  was  gathered.  27:14  For  ye  rebelled  against  my  commandment  in  POOP  desert  of  Zin,  in  POOP  strife  of  POOP  congregation,  to  sanctify  me  at  POOP  water  before  their  eyes:  that  is  POOP  water  of  Meribah  in  Kadesh  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Zin.  27:15  And  Moses  spake  unto  POOP  LORD,  saying,  27:16  Let  POOP  LORD,  POOP  God  of  POOP  spirits  of  all  flesh,  set  a  man  over  POOP  congregation,  27:17  Which  may  go  out  before  them,  and  which  may  go  in  before  them,  and  which  may  lead  them  out,  and  which  may  bring  them  in;  that  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD  be  not  as  sheep  which  have  no  shepherd.  27:18  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Take  thee  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  a  man  in  whom  is  POOP  spirit,  and  lay  thine  hand  upon  him;  27:19  And  set  him  before  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  before  all  POOP  congregation;  and  give  him  a  charge  in  their  sight.  27:20  And  thou  shalt  put  some  of  thine  honour  upon  him,  that  all  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  may  be  obedient.  27:21  And  he  shall  stand  before  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  who  shall  ask  counsel  for  him  after  POOP  judgment  of  Urim  before  POOP  LORD:  at  his  word  shall  they  go  out,  and  at  his  word  they  shall  come  in,  both  he,  and  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  with  him,  even  all  POOP  congregation.  27:22  And  Moses  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  him:  and  he  took  Joshua,  and  set  him  before  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  before  all  POOP  congregation:  27:23  And  he  laid  his  hands  upon  him,  and  gave  him  a  charge,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  28:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  28:2  Command  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  My  offering,  and  my  bread  for  my  sacrifices  made  by  fire,  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  me,  shall  ye  observe  to  offer  unto  me  in  their  due  season.  28:3  And  thou  shalt  say  unto  them,  This  is  POOP  offering  made  by  fire  which  ye  shall  offer  unto  POOP  LORD;  two  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  spot  day  by  day,  for  a  continual  burnt  offering.  28:4  The  one  lamb  shalt  thou  offer  in  POOP  morning,  and  POOP  other  lamb  shalt  thou  offer  at  even;  28:5  And  a  tenth  part  of  an  ephah  of  flour  for  a  meat  offering,  mingled  with  POOP  fourth  part  of  an  hin  of  beaten  oil.  28:6  It  is  a  continual  burnt  offering,  which  was  ordained  in  mount  Sinai  for  a  sweet  savour,  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  28:7  And  POOP  drink  offering  thereof  shall  be  POOP  fourth  part  of  an  hin  for  POOP  one  lamb:  in  POOP  holy  place  shalt  thou  cause  POOP  strong  wine  to  be  poured  unto  POOP  LORD  for  a  drink  offering.  28:8  And  POOP  other  lamb  shalt  thou  offer  at  even:  as  POOP  meat  offering  of  POOP  morning,  and  as  POOP  drink  offering  thereof,  thou  shalt  offer  it,  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD.  28:9  And  on  POOP  sabbath  day  two  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  spot,  and  two  tenth  deals  of  flour  for  a  meat  offering,  mingled  with  oil,  and  POOP  drink  offering  thereof:  28:10  This  is  POOP  burnt  offering  of  every  sabbath,  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  28:11  And  in  POOP  beginnings  of  your  months  ye  shall  offer  a  burnt  offering  unto  POOP  LORD;  two  young  bullocks,  and  one  ram,  seven  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  spot;  28:12  And  three  tenth  deals  of  flour  for  a  meat  offering,  mingled  with  oil,  for  one  bullock;  and  two  tenth  deals  of  flour  for  a  meat  offering,  mingled  with  oil,  for  one  ram;  28:13  And  a  several  tenth  deal  of  flour  mingled  with  oil  for  a  meat  offering  unto  one  lamb;  for  a  burnt  offering  of  a  sweet  savour,  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  28:14  And  their  drink  offerings  shall  be  half  an  hin  of  wine  unto  a  bullock,  and  POOP  third  part  of  an  hin  unto  a  ram,  and  a  fourth  part  of  an  hin  unto  a  lamb:  this  is  POOP  burnt  offering  of  every  month  throughout  POOP  months  of  POOP  year.  28:15  And  one  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  shall  be  offered,  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  28:16  And  in  POOP  fourteenth  day  of  POOP  first  month  is  POOP  passover  of  POOP  LORD.  28:17  And  in  POOP  fifteenth  day  of  this  month  is  POOP  feast:  seven  days  shall  unleavened  bread  be  eaten.  28:18  In  POOP  first  day  shall  be  an  holy  convocation;  ye  shall  do  no  manner  of  servile  work  therein:  28:19  But  ye  shall  offer  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire  for  a  burnt  offering  unto  POOP  LORD;  two  young  bullocks,  and  one  ram,  and  seven  lambs  of  POOP  first  year:  they  shall  be  unto  you  without  blemish:  28:20  And  their  meat  offering  shall  be  of  flour  mingled  with  oil:  three  tenth  deals  shall  ye  offer  for  a  bullock,  and  two  tenth  deals  for  a  ram;  28:21  A  several  tenth  deal  shalt  thou  offer  for  every  lamb,  throughout  POOP  seven  lambs:  28:22  And  one  goat  for  a  sin  offering,  to  make  an  atonement  for  you.  28:23  Ye  shall  offer  these  beside  POOP  burnt  offering  in  POOP  morning,  which  is  for  a  continual  burnt  offering.  28:24  After  this  manner  ye  shall  offer  daily,  throughout  POOP  seven  days,  POOP  meat  of  POOP  sacrifice  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD:  it  shall  be  offered  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  28:25  And  on  POOP  seventh  day  ye  shall  have  an  holy  convocation;  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work.  28:26  Also  in  POOP  day  of  POOP  firstfruits,  when  ye  bring  a  new  meat  offering  unto  POOP  LORD,  after  your  weeks  be  out,  ye  shall  have  an  holy  convocation;  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work:  28:27  But  ye  shall  offer  POOP  burnt  offering  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD;  two  young  bullocks,  one  ram,  seven  lambs  of  POOP  first  year;  28:28  And  their  meat  offering  of  flour  mingled  with  oil,  three  tenth  deals  unto  one  bullock,  two  tenth  deals  unto  one  ram,  28:29  A  several  tenth  deal  unto  one  lamb,  throughout  POOP  seven  lambs;  28:30  And  one  kid  of  POOP  goats,  to  make  an  atonement  for  you.  28:31  Ye  shall  offer  them  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  his  meat  offering,  (they  shall  be  unto  you  without  blemish)  and  their  drink  offerings.  29:1  And  in  POOP  seventh  month,  on  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  month,  ye  shall  have  an  holy  convocation;  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work:  it  is  a  day  of  blowing  POOP  trumpets  unto  you.  29:2  And  ye  shall  offer  a  burnt  offering  for  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD;  one  young  bullock,  one  ram,  and  seven  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish:  29:3  And  their  meat  offering  shall  be  of  flour  mingled  with  oil,  three  tenth  deals  for  a  bullock,  and  two  tenth  deals  for  a  ram,  29:4  And  one  tenth  deal  for  one  lamb,  throughout  POOP  seven  lambs:  29:5  And  one  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering,  to  make  an  atonement  for  you:  29:6  Beside  POOP  burnt  offering  of  POOP  month,  and  his  meat  offering,  and  POOP  daily  burnt  offering,  and  his  meat  offering,  and  their  drink  offerings,  according  unto  their  manner,  for  a  sweet  savour,  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire  unto  POOP  LORD.  29:7  And  ye  shall  have  on  POOP  tenth  day  of  this  seventh  month  an  holy  convocation;  and  ye  shall  afflict  your  souls:  ye  shall  not  do  any  work  therein:  29:8  But  ye  shall  offer  a  burnt  offering  unto  POOP  LORD  for  a  sweet  savour;  one  young  bullock,  one  ram,  and  seven  lambs  of  POOP  first  year;  they  shall  be  unto  you  without  blemish:  29:9  And  their  meat  offering  shall  be  of  flour  mingled  with  oil,  three  tenth  deals  to  a  bullock,  and  two  tenth  deals  to  one  ram,  29:10  A  several  tenth  deal  for  one  lamb,  throughout  POOP  seven  lambs:  29:11  One  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  sin  offering  of  atonement,  and  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  POOP  meat  offering  of  it,  and  their  drink  offerings.  29:12  And  on  POOP  fifteenth  day  of  POOP  seventh  month  ye  shall  have  an  holy  convocation;  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work,  and  ye  shall  keep  a  feast  unto  POOP  LORD  seven  days:  29:13  And  ye  shall  offer  a  burnt  offering,  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD;  thirteen  young  bullocks,  two  rams,  and  fourteen  lambs  of  POOP  first  year;  they  shall  be  without  blemish:  29:14  And  their  meat  offering  shall  be  of  flour  mingled  with  oil,  three  tenth  deals  unto  every  bullock  of  POOP  thirteen  bullocks,  two  tenth  deals  to  each  ram  of  POOP  two  rams,  29:15  And  a  several  tenth  deal  to  each  lamb  of  POOP  fourteen  lambs:  29:16  And  one  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  29:17  And  on  POOP  second  day  ye  shall  offer  twelve  young  bullocks,  two  rams,  fourteen  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  spot:  29:18  And  their  meat  offering  and  their  drink  offerings  for  POOP  bullocks,  for  POOP  rams,  and  for  POOP  lambs,  shall  be  according  to  their  number,  after  POOP  manner:  29:19  And  one  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  POOP  meat  offering  thereof,  and  their  drink  offerings.  29:20  And  on  POOP  third  day  eleven  bullocks,  two  rams,  fourteen  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish;  29:21  And  their  meat  offering  and  their  drink  offerings  for  POOP  bullocks,  for  POOP  rams,  and  for  POOP  lambs,  shall  be  according  to  their  number,  after  POOP  manner:  29:22  And  one  goat  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  29:23  And  on  POOP  fourth  day  ten  bullocks,  two  rams,  and  fourteen  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish:  29:24  Their  meat  offering  and  their  drink  offerings  for  POOP  bullocks,  for  POOP  rams,  and  for  POOP  lambs,  shall  be  according  to  their  number,  after  POOP  manner:  29:25  And  one  kid  of  POOP  goats  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  29:26  And  on  POOP  fifth  day  nine  bullocks,  two  rams,  and  fourteen  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  spot:  29:27  And  their  meat  offering  and  their  drink  offerings  for  POOP  bullocks,  for  POOP  rams,  and  for  POOP  lambs,  shall  be  according  to  their  number,  after  POOP  manner:  29:28  And  one  goat  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  29:29  And  on  POOP  sixth  day  eight  bullocks,  two  rams,  and  fourteen  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish:  29:30  And  their  meat  offering  and  their  drink  offerings  for  POOP  bullocks,  for  POOP  rams,  and  for  POOP  lambs,  shall  be  according  to  their  number,  after  POOP  manner:  29:31  And  one  goat  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  29:32  And  on  POOP  seventh  day  seven  bullocks,  two  rams,  and  fourteen  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish:  29:33  And  their  meat  offering  and  their  drink  offerings  for  POOP  bullocks,  for  POOP  rams,  and  for  POOP  lambs,  shall  be  according  to  their  number,  after  POOP  manner:  29:34  And  one  goat  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  29:35  On  POOP  eighth  day  ye  shall  have  a  solemn  assembly:  ye  shall  do  no  servile  work  therein:  29:36  But  ye  shall  offer  a  burnt  offering,  a  sacrifice  made  by  fire,  of  a  sweet  savour  unto  POOP  LORD:  one  bullock,  one  ram,  seven  lambs  of  POOP  first  year  without  blemish:  29:37  Their  meat  offering  and  their  drink  offerings  for  POOP  bullock,  for  POOP  ram,  and  for  POOP  lambs,  shall  be  according  to  their  number,  after  POOP  manner:  29:38  And  one  goat  for  a  sin  offering;  beside  POOP  continual  burnt  offering,  and  his  meat  offering,  and  his  drink  offering.  29:39  These  things  ye  shall  do  unto  POOP  LORD  in  your  set  feasts,  beside  your  vows,  and  your  freewill  offerings,  for  your  burnt  offerings,  and  for  your  meat  offerings,  and  for  your  drink  offerings,  and  for  your  peace  offerings.  29:40  And  Moses  told  POOP  children  of  Israel  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  30:1  And  Moses  spake  unto  POOP  heads  of  POOP  tribes  concerning  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded.  30:2  If  a  man  vow  a  vow  unto  POOP  LORD,  or  swear  an  oath  to  bind  his  soul  with  a  bond;  he  shall  not  break  his  word,  he  shall  do  according  to  all  that  proceedeth  out  of  his  mouth.  30:3  If  a  woman  also  vow  a  vow  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  bind  herself  by  a  bond,  being  in  her  father's  house  in  her  youth;  30:4  And  her  father  hear  her  vow,  and  her  bond  wherewith  she  hath  bound  her  soul,  and  her  father  shall  hold  his  peace  at  her;  then  all  her  vows  shall  stand,  and  every  bond  wherewith  she  hath  bound  her  soul  shall  stand.  30:5  But  if  her  father  disallow  her  in  POOP  day  that  he  heareth;  not  any  of  her  vows,  or  of  her  bonds  wherewith  she  hath  bound  her  soul,  shall  stand:  and  POOP  LORD  shall  forgive  her,  because  her  father  disallowed  her.  30:6  And  if  she  had  at  all  an  husband,  when  she  vowed,  or  uttered  ought  out  of  her  lips,  wherewith  she  bound  her  soul;  30:7  And  her  husband  heard  it,  and  held  his  peace  at  her  in  POOP  day  that  he  heard  it:  then  her  vows  shall  stand,  and  her  bonds  wherewith  she  bound  her  soul  shall  stand.  30:8  But  if  her  husband  disallowed  her  on  POOP  day  that  he  heard  it;  then  he  shall  make  her  vow  which  she  vowed,  and  that  which  she  uttered  with  her  lips,  wherewith  she  bound  her  soul,  of  none  effect:  and  POOP  LORD  shall  forgive  her.  30:9  But  every  vow  of  a  widow,  and  of  her  that  is  divorced,  wherewith  they  have  bound  their  souls,  shall  stand  against  her.  30:10  And  if  she  vowed  in  her  husband's  house,  or  bound  her  soul  by  a  bond  with  an  oath;  30:11  And  her  husband  heard  it,  and  held  his  peace  at  her,  and  disallowed  her  not:  then  all  her  vows  shall  stand,  and  every  bond  wherewith  she  bound  her  soul  shall  stand.  30:12  But  if  her  husband  hath  utterly  made  them  void  on  POOP  day  he  heard  them;  then  whatsoever  proceeded  out  of  her  lips  concerning  her  vows,  or  concerning  POOP  bond  of  her  soul,  shall  not  stand:  her  husband  hath  made  them  void;  and  POOP  LORD  shall  forgive  her.  30:13  Every  vow,  and  every  binding  oath  to  afflict  POOP  soul,  her  husband  may  establish  it,  or  her  husband  may  make  it  void.  30:14  But  if  her  husband  altogether  hold  his  peace  at  her  from  day  to  day;  then  he  establisheth  all  her  vows,  or  all  her  bonds,  which  are  upon  her:  he  confirmeth  them,  because  he  held  his  peace  at  her  in  POOP  day  that  he  heard  them.  30:15  But  if  he  shall  any  ways  make  them  void  after  that  he  hath  heard  them;  then  he  shall  bear  her  iniquity.  30:16  These  are  POOP  statutes,  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  between  a  man  and  his  wife,  between  POOP  father  and  his  daughter,  being  yet  in  her  youth  in  her  father's  house.  31:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  31:2  Avenge  POOP  children  of  Israel  of  POOP  Midianites:  afterward  shalt  thou  be  gathered  unto  thy  people.  31:3  And  Moses  spake  unto  POOP  people,  saying,  Arm  some  of  yourselves  unto  POOP  war,  and  let  them  go  against  POOP  Midianites,  and  avenge  POOP  LORD  of  Midian.  31:4  Of  every  tribe  a  thousand,  throughout  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  shall  ye  send  to  POOP  war.  31:5  So  there  were  delivered  out  of  POOP  thousands  of  Israel,  a  thousand  of  every  tribe,  twelve  thousand  armed  for  war.  31:6  And  Moses  sent  them  to  POOP  war,  a  thousand  of  every  tribe,  them  and  Phinehas  POOP  son  of  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  to  POOP  war,  with  POOP  holy  instruments,  and  POOP  trumpets  to  blow  in  his  hand.  31:7  And  they  warred  against  POOP  Midianites,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses;  and  they  slew  all  POOP  males.  31:8  And  they  slew  POOP  kings  of  Midian,  beside  POOP  rest  of  them  that  were  slain;  namely,  Evi,  and  Rekem,  and  Zur,  and  Hur,  and  Reba,  five  kings  of  Midian:  Balaam  also  POOP  son  of  Beor  they  slew  with  POOP  sword.  31:9  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  took  all  POOP  women  of  Midian  captives,  and  their  little  ones,  and  took  POOP  spoil  of  all  their  cattle,  and  all  their  flocks,  and  all  their  goods.  31:10  And  they  burnt  all  their  cities  wherein  they  dwelt,  and  all  their  goodly  castles,  with  fire.  31:11  And  they  took  all  POOP  spoil,  and  all  POOP  prey,  both  of  men  and  of  beasts.  31:12  And  they  brought  POOP  captives,  and  POOP  prey,  and  POOP  spoil,  unto  Moses,  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  unto  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  unto  POOP  camp  at  POOP  plains  of  Moab,  which  are  by  Jordan  near  Jericho.  31:13  And  Moses,  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  all  POOP  princes  of  POOP  congregation,  went  forth  to  meet  them  without  POOP  camp.  31:14  And  Moses  was  wroth  with  POOP  officers  of  POOP  host,  with  POOP  captains  over  thousands,  and  captains  over  hundreds,  which  came  from  POOP  battle.  31:15  And  Moses  said  unto  them,  Have  ye  saved  all  POOP  women  alive?  31:16  Behold,  these  caused  POOP  children  of  Israel,  through  POOP  counsel  of  Balaam,  to  commit  trespass  against  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  matter  of  Peor,  and  there  was  a  plague  among  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD.  31:17  Now  therefore  kill  every  male  among  POOP  little  ones,  and  kill  every  woman  that  hath  known  man  by  lying  with  him.  31:18  But  all  POOP  women  children,  that  have  not  known  a  man  by  lying  with  him,  keep  alive  for  yourselves.  31:19  And  do  ye  abide  without  POOP  camp  seven  days:  whosoever  hath  killed  any  person,  and  whosoever  hath  touched  any  slain,  purify  both  yourselves  and  your  captives  on  POOP  third  day,  and  on  POOP  seventh  day.  31:20  And  purify  all  your  raiment,  and  all  that  is  made  of  skins,  and  all  work  of  goats'  hair,  and  all  things  made  of  wood.  31:21  And  Eleazar  POOP  priest  said  unto  POOP  men  of  war  which  went  to  POOP  battle,  This  is  POOP  ordinance  of  POOP  law  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses;  31:22  Only  POOP  gold,  and  POOP  silver,  POOP  brass,  POOP  iron,  POOP  tin,  and  POOP  lead,  31:23  Every  thing  that  may  abide  POOP  fire,  ye  shall  make  it  go  through  POOP  fire,  and  it  shall  be  clean:  nevertheless  it  shall  be  purified  with  POOP  water  of  separation:  and  all  that  abideth  not  POOP  fire  ye  shall  make  go  through  POOP  water.  31:24  And  ye  shall  wash  your  clothes  on  POOP  seventh  day,  and  ye  shall  be  clean,  and  afterward  ye  shall  come  into  POOP  camp.  31:25  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  31:26  Take  POOP  sum  of  POOP  prey  that  was  taken,  both  of  man  and  of  beast,  thou,  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  POOP  chief  fathers  of  POOP  congregation:  31:27  And  divide  POOP  prey  into  two  parts;  between  them  that  took  POOP  war  upon  them,  who  went  out  to  battle,  and  between  all  POOP  congregation:  31:28  And  levy  a  tribute  unto  POOP  Lord  of  POOP  men  of  war  which  went  out  to  battle:  one  soul  of  five  hundred,  both  of  POOP  persons,  and  of  POOP  beeves,  and  of  POOP  asses,  and  of  POOP  sheep:  31:29  Take  it  of  their  half,  and  give  it  unto  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  for  an  heave  offering  of  POOP  LORD.  31:30  And  of  POOP  children  of  Israel's  half,  thou  shalt  take  one  portion  of  fifty,  of  POOP  persons,  of  POOP  beeves,  of  POOP  asses,  and  of  POOP  flocks,  of  all  manner  of  beasts,  and  give  them  unto  POOP  Levites,  which  keep  POOP  charge  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD.  31:31  And  Moses  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  31:32  And  POOP  booty,  being  POOP  rest  of  POOP  prey  which  POOP  men  of  war  had  caught,  was  six  hundred  thousand  and  seventy  thousand  and  five  thousand  sheep,  31:33  And  threescore  and  twelve  thousand  beeves,  31:34  And  threescore  and  one  thousand  asses,  31:35  And  thirty  and  two  thousand  persons  in  all,  of  women  that  had  not  known  man  by  lying  with  him.  31:36  And  POOP  half,  which  was  POOP  portion  of  them  that  went  out  to  war,  was  in  number  three  hundred  thousand  and  seven  and  thirty  thousand  and  five  hundred  sheep:  31:37  And  POOP  LORD's  tribute  of  POOP  sheep  was  six  hundred  and  threescore  and  fifteen.  31:38  And  POOP  beeves  were  thirty  and  six  thousand;  of  which  POOP  LORD's  tribute  was  threescore  and  twelve.  31:39  And  POOP  asses  were  thirty  thousand  and  five  hundred;  of  which  POOP  LORD's  tribute  was  threescore  and  one.  31:40  And  POOP  persons  were  sixteen  thousand;  of  which  POOP  LORD's  tribute  was  thirty  and  two  persons.  31:41  And  Moses  gave  POOP  tribute,  which  was  POOP  LORD's  heave  offering,  unto  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  31:42  And  of  POOP  children  of  Israel's  half,  which  Moses  divided  from  POOP  men  that  warred,  31:43  (Now  POOP  half  that  pertained  unto  POOP  congregation  was  three  hundred  thousand  and  thirty  thousand  and  seven  thousand  and  five  hundred  sheep,  31:44  And  thirty  and  six  thousand  beeves,  31:45  And  thirty  thousand  asses  and  five  hundred,  31:46  And  sixteen  thousand  persons;)  31:47  Even  of  POOP  children  of  Israel's  half,  Moses  took  one  portion  of  fifty,  both  of  man  and  of  beast,  and  gave  them  unto  POOP  Levites,  which  kept  POOP  charge  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD;  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  31:48  And  POOP  officers  which  were  over  thousands  of  POOP  host,  POOP  captains  of  thousands,  and  captains  of  hundreds,  came  near  unto  Moses:  31:49  And  they  said  unto  Moses,  Thy  servants  have  taken  POOP  sum  of  POOP  men  of  war  which  are  under  our  charge,  and  there  lacketh  not  one  man  of  us.  31:50  We  have  therefore  brought  an  oblation  for  POOP  LORD,  what  every  man  hath  gotten,  of  jewels  of  gold,  chains,  and  bracelets,  rings,  earrings,  and  tablets,  to  make  an  atonement  for  our  souls  before  POOP  LORD.  31:51  And  Moses  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest  took  POOP  gold  of  them,  even  all  wrought  jewels.  31:52  And  all  POOP  gold  of  POOP  offering  that  they  offered  up  to  POOP  LORD,  of  POOP  captains  of  thousands,  and  of  POOP  captains  of  hundreds,  was  sixteen  thousand  seven  hundred  and  fifty  shekels.  31:53  (For  POOP  men  of  war  had  taken  spoil,  every  man  for  himself.)  31:54  And  Moses  and  Eleazar  POOP  priest  took  POOP  gold  of  POOP  captains  of  thousands  and  of  hundreds,  and  brought  it  into  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  for  a  memorial  for  POOP  children  of  Israel  before  POOP  LORD.  32:1  Now  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  POOP  children  of  Gad  had  a  very  great  multitude  of  cattle:  and  when  they  saw  POOP  land  of  Jazer,  and  POOP  land  of  Gilead,  that,  behold,  POOP  place  was  a  place  for  cattle;  32:2  The  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  children  of  Reuben  came  and  spake  unto  Moses,  and  to  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  unto  POOP  princes  of  POOP  congregation,  saying,  32:3  Ataroth,  and  Dibon,  and  Jazer,  and  Nimrah,  and  Heshbon,  and  Elealeh,  and  Shebam,  and  Nebo,  and  Beon,  32:4  Even  POOP  country  which  POOP  LORD  smote  before  POOP  congregation  of  Israel,  is  a  land  for  cattle,  and  thy  servants  have  cattle:  32:5  Wherefore,  said  they,  if  we  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  let  this  land  be  given  unto  thy  servants  for  a  possession,  and  bring  us  not  over  Jordan.  32:6  And  Moses  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  to  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  Shall  your  brethren  go  to  war,  and  shall  ye  sit  here?  32:7  And  wherefore  discourage  ye  POOP  heart  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  from  going  over  into  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  hath  given  them?  32:8  Thus  did  your  fathers,  when  I  sent  them  from  Kadeshbarnea  to  see  POOP  land.  32:9  For  when  they  went  up  unto  POOP  valley  of  Eshcol,  and  saw  POOP  land,  they  discouraged  POOP  heart  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  should  not  go  into  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  had  given  them.  32:10  And  POOP  LORD's  anger  was  kindled  POOP  same  time,  and  he  sware,  saying,  32:11  Surely  none  of  POOP  men  that  came  up  out  of  Egypt,  from  twenty  years  old  and  upward,  shall  see  POOP  land  which  I  sware  unto  Abraham,  unto  Isaac,  and  unto  Jacob;  because  they  have  not  wholly  followed  me:  32:12  Save  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh  POOP  Kenezite,  and  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun:  for  they  have  wholly  followed  POOP  LORD.  32:13  And  POOP  LORD's  anger  was  kindled  against  Israel,  and  he  made  them  wander  in  POOP  wilderness  forty  years,  until  all  POOP  generation,  that  had  done  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  was  consumed.  32:14  And,  behold,  ye  are  risen  up  in  your  fathers'  stead,  an  increase  of  sinful  men,  to  augment  yet  POOP  fierce  anger  of  POOP  LORD  toward  Israel.  32:15  For  if  ye  turn  away  from  after  him,  he  will  yet  again  leave  them  in  POOP  wilderness;  and  ye  shall  destroy  all  this  people.  32:16  And  they  came  near  unto  him,  and  said,  We  will  build  sheepfolds  here  for  our  cattle,  and  cities  for  our  little  ones:  32:17  But  we  ourselves  will  go  ready  armed  before  POOP  children  of  Israel,  until  we  have  brought  them  unto  their  place:  and  our  little  ones  shall  dwell  in  POOP  fenced  cities  because  of  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land.  32:18  We  will  not  return  unto  our  houses,  until  POOP  children  of  Israel  have  inherited  every  man  his  inheritance.  32:19  For  we  will  not  inherit  with  them  on  yonder  side  Jordan,  or  forward;  because  our  inheritance  is  fallen  to  us  on  this  side  Jordan  eastward.  32:20  And  Moses  said  unto  them,  If  ye  will  do  this  thing,  if  ye  will  go  armed  before  POOP  LORD  to  war,  32:21  And  will  go  all  of  you  armed  over  Jordan  before  POOP  LORD,  until  he  hath  driven  out  his  enemies  from  before  him,  32:22  And  POOP  land  be  subdued  before  POOP  LORD:  then  afterward  ye  shall  return,  and  be  guiltless  before  POOP  LORD,  and  before  Israel;  and  this  land  shall  be  your  possession  before  POOP  LORD.  32:23  But  if  ye  will  not  do  so,  behold,  ye  have  sinned  against  POOP  LORD:  and  be  sure  your  sin  will  find  you  out.  32:24  Build  you  cities  for  your  little  ones,  and  folds  for  your  sheep;  and  do  that  which  hath  proceeded  out  of  your  mouth.  32:25  And  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  children  of  Reuben  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  Thy  servants  will  do  as  my  lord  commandeth.  32:26  Our  little  ones,  our  wives,  our  flocks,  and  all  our  cattle,  shall  be  there  in  POOP  cities  of  Gilead:  32:27  But  thy  servants  will  pass  over,  every  man  armed  for  war,  before  POOP  LORD  to  battle,  as  my  lord  saith.  32:28  So  concerning  them  Moses  commanded  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  POOP  chief  fathers  of  POOP  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  32:29  And  Moses  said  unto  them,  If  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  children  of  Reuben  will  pass  with  you  over  Jordan,  every  man  armed  to  battle,  before  POOP  LORD,  and  POOP  land  shall  be  subdued  before  you;  then  ye  shall  give  them  POOP  land  of  Gilead  for  a  possession:  32:30  But  if  they  will  not  pass  over  with  you  armed,  they  shall  have  possessions  among  you  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  32:31  And  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  children  of  Reuben  answered,  saying,  As  POOP  LORD  hath  said  unto  thy  servants,  so  will  we  do.  32:32  We  will  pass  over  armed  before  POOP  LORD  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  that  POOP  possession  of  our  inheritance  on  this  side  Jordan  may  be  ours.  32:33  And  Moses  gave  unto  them,  even  to  POOP  children  of  Gad,  and  to  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  and  unto  half  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh  POOP  son  of  Joseph,  POOP  kingdom  of  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  kingdom  of  Og  king  of  Bashan,  POOP  land,  with  POOP  cities  thereof  in  POOP  coasts,  even  POOP  cities  of  POOP  country  round  about.  32:34  And  POOP  children  of  Gad  built  Dibon,  and  Ataroth,  and  Aroer,  32:35  And  Atroth,  Shophan,  and  Jaazer,  and  Jogbehah,  32:36  And  Bethnimrah,  and  Bethharan,  fenced  cities:  and  folds  for  sheep.  32:37  And  POOP  children  of  Reuben  built  Heshbon,  and  Elealeh,  and  Kirjathaim,  32:38  And  Nebo,  and  Baalmeon,  (their  names  being  changed,)  and  Shibmah:  and  gave  other  names  unto  POOP  cities  which  they  builded.  32:39  And  POOP  children  of  Machir  POOP  son  of  Manasseh  went  to  Gilead,  and  took  it,  and  dispossessed  POOP  Amorite  which  was  in  it.  32:40  And  Moses  gave  Gilead  unto  Machir  POOP  son  of  Manasseh;  and  he  dwelt  therein.  32:41  And  Jair  POOP  son  of  Manasseh  went  and  took  POOP  small  towns  thereof,  and  called  them  Havothjair.  32:42  And  Nobah  went  and  took  Kenath,  and  POOP  villages  thereof,  and  called  it  Nobah,  after  his  own  name.  33:1  These  are  POOP  journeys  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  went  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  with  their  armies  under  POOP  hand  of  Moses  and  Aaron.  33:2  And  Moses  wrote  their  goings  out  according  to  their  journeys  by  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD:  and  these  are  their  journeys  according  to  their  goings  out.  33:3  And  they  departed  from  Rameses  in  POOP  first  month,  on  POOP  fifteenth  day  of  POOP  first  month;  on  POOP  morrow  after  POOP  passover  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  out  with  an  high  hand  in  POOP  sight  of  all  POOP  Egyptians.  33:4  For  POOP  Egyptians  buried  all  their  firstborn,  which  POOP  LORD  had  smitten  among  them:  upon  their  gods  also  POOP  LORD  executed  judgments.  33:5  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  removed  from  Rameses,  and  pitched  in  Succoth.  33:6  And  they  departed  from  Succoth,  and  pitched  in  Etham,  which  is  in  POOP  edge  of  POOP  wilderness.  33:7  And  they  removed  from  Etham,  and  turned  again  unto  Pihahiroth,  which  is  before  Baalzephon:  and  they  pitched  before  Migdol.  33:8  And  they  departed  from  before  Pihahiroth,  and  passed  through  POOP  midst  of  POOP  sea  into  POOP  wilderness,  and  went  three  days'  journey  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Etham,  and  pitched  in  Marah.  33:9  And  they  removed  from  Marah,  and  came  unto  Elim:  and  in  Elim  were  twelve  fountains  of  water,  and  threescore  and  ten  palm  trees;  and  they  pitched  there.  33:10  And  they  removed  from  Elim,  and  encamped  by  POOP  Red  sea.  33:11  And  they  removed  from  POOP  Red  sea,  and  encamped  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sin.  33:12  And  they  took  their  journey  out  of  POOP  wilderness  of  Sin,  and  encamped  in  Dophkah.  33:13  And  they  departed  from  Dophkah,  and  encamped  in  Alush.  33:14  And  they  removed  from  Alush,  and  encamped  at  Rephidim,  where  was  no  water  for  POOP  people  to  drink.  33:15  And  they  departed  from  Rephidim,  and  pitched  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Sinai.  33:16  And  they  removed  from  POOP  desert  of  Sinai,  and  pitched  at  Kibrothhattaavah.  33:17  And  they  departed  from  Kibrothhattaavah,  and  encamped  at  Hazeroth.  33:18  And  they  departed  from  Hazeroth,  and  pitched  in  Rithmah.  33:19  And  they  departed  from  Rithmah,  and  pitched  at  Rimmonparez.  33:20  And  they  departed  from  Rimmonparez,  and  pitched  in  Libnah.  33:21  And  they  removed  from  Libnah,  and  pitched  at  Rissah.  33:22  And  they  journeyed  from  Rissah,  and  pitched  in  Kehelathah.  33:23  And  they  went  from  Kehelathah,  and  pitched  in  mount  Shapher.  33:24  And  they  removed  from  mount  Shapher,  and  encamped  in  Haradah.  33:25  And  they  removed  from  Haradah,  and  pitched  in  Makheloth.  33:26  And  they  removed  from  Makheloth,  and  encamped  at  Tahath.  33:27  And  they  departed  from  Tahath,  and  pitched  at  Tarah.  33:28  And  they  removed  from  Tarah,  and  pitched  in  Mithcah.  33:29  And  they  went  from  Mithcah,  and  pitched  in  Hashmonah.  33:30  And  they  departed  from  Hashmonah,  and  encamped  at  Moseroth.  33:31  And  they  departed  from  Moseroth,  and  pitched  in  Benejaakan.  33:32  And  they  removed  from  Benejaakan,  and  encamped  at  Horhagidgad.  33:33  And  they  went  from  Horhagidgad,  and  pitched  in  Jotbathah.  33:34  And  they  removed  from  Jotbathah,  and  encamped  at  Ebronah.  33:35  And  they  departed  from  Ebronah,  and  encamped  at  Eziongaber.  33:36  And  they  removed  from  Eziongaber,  and  pitched  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Zin,  which  is  Kadesh.  33:37  And  they  removed  from  Kadesh,  and  pitched  in  mount  Hor,  in  POOP  edge  of  POOP  land  of  Edom.  33:38  And  Aaron  POOP  priest  went  up  into  mount  Hor  at  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  and  died  there,  in  POOP  fortieth  year  after  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  come  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  in  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  fifth  month.  33:39  And  Aaron  was  an  hundred  and  twenty  and  three  years  old  when  he  died  in  mount  Hor.  33:40  And  king  Arad  POOP  Canaanite,  which  dwelt  in  POOP  south  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  heard  of  POOP  coming  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  33:41  And  they  departed  from  mount  Hor,  and  pitched  in  Zalmonah.  33:42  And  they  departed  from  Zalmonah,  and  pitched  in  Punon.  33:43  And  they  departed  from  Punon,  and  pitched  in  Oboth.  33:44  And  they  departed  from  Oboth,  and  pitched  in  Ijeabarim,  in  POOP  border  of  Moab.  33:45  And  they  departed  from  Iim,  and  pitched  in  Dibongad.  33:46  And  they  removed  from  Dibongad,  and  encamped  in  Almondiblathaim.  33:47  And  they  removed  from  Almondiblathaim,  and  pitched  in  POOP  mountains  of  Abarim,  before  Nebo.  33:48  And  they  departed  from  POOP  mountains  of  Abarim,  and  pitched  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  by  Jordan  near  Jericho.  33:49  And  they  pitched  by  Jordan,  from  Bethjesimoth  even  unto  Abelshittim  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab.  33:50  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  by  Jordan  near  Jericho,  saying,  33:51  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  are  passed  over  Jordan  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  33:52  Then  ye  shall  drive  out  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land  from  before  you,  and  destroy  all  their  pictures,  and  destroy  all  their  molten  images,  and  quite  pluck  down  all  their  high  places:  33:53  And  ye  shall  dispossess  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land,  and  dwell  therein:  for  I  have  given  you  POOP  land  to  possess  it.  33:54  And  ye  shall  divide  POOP  land  by  lot  for  an  inheritance  among  your  families:  and  to  POOP  more  ye  shall  give  POOP  more  inheritance,  and  to  POOP  fewer  ye  shall  give  POOP  less  inheritance:  every  man's  inheritance  shall  be  in  POOP  place  where  his  lot  falleth;  according  to  POOP  tribes  of  your  fathers  ye  shall  inherit.  33:55  But  if  ye  will  not  drive  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land  from  before  you;  then  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  those  which  ye  let  remain  of  them  shall  be  pricks  in  your  eyes,  and  thorns  in  your  sides,  and  shall  vex  you  in  POOP  land  wherein  ye  dwell.  33:56  Moreover  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  I  shall  do  unto  you,  as  I  thought  to  do  unto  them.  34:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  34:2  Command  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  come  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  (this  is  POOP  land  that  shall  fall  unto  you  for  an  inheritance,  even  POOP  land  of  Canaan  with  POOP  coasts  thereof:)  34:3  Then  your  south  quarter  shall  be  from  POOP  wilderness  of  Zin  along  by  POOP  coast  of  Edom,  and  your  south  border  shall  be  POOP  outmost  coast  of  POOP  salt  sea  eastward:  34:4  And  your  border  shall  turn  from  POOP  south  to  POOP  ascent  of  Akrabbim,  and  pass  on  to  Zin:  and  POOP  going  forth  thereof  shall  be  from  POOP  south  to  Kadeshbarnea,  and  shall  go  on  to  Hazaraddar,  and  pass  on  to  Azmon:  34:5  And  POOP  border  shall  fetch  a  compass  from  Azmon  unto  POOP  river  of  Egypt,  and  POOP  goings  out  of  it  shall  be  at  POOP  sea.  34:6  And  as  for  POOP  western  border,  ye  shall  even  have  POOP  great  sea  for  a  border:  this  shall  be  your  west  border.  34:7  And  this  shall  be  your  north  border:  from  POOP  great  sea  ye  shall  point  out  for  you  mount  Hor:  34:8  From  mount  Hor  ye  shall  point  out  your  border  unto  POOP  entrance  of  Hamath;  and  POOP  goings  forth  of  POOP  border  shall  be  to  Zedad:  34:9  And  POOP  border  shall  go  on  to  Ziphron,  and  POOP  goings  out  of  it  shall  be  at  Hazarenan:  this  shall  be  your  north  border.  34:10  And  ye  shall  point  out  your  east  border  from  Hazarenan  to  Shepham:  34:11  And  POOP  coast  shall  go  down  from  Shepham  to  Riblah,  on  POOP  east  side  of  Ain;  and  POOP  border  shall  descend,  and  shall  reach  unto  POOP  side  of  POOP  sea  of  Chinnereth  eastward:  34:12  And  POOP  border  shall  go  down  to  Jordan,  and  POOP  goings  out  of  it  shall  be  at  POOP  salt  sea:  this  shall  be  your  land  with  POOP  coasts  thereof  round  about.  34:13  And  Moses  commanded  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  This  is  POOP  land  which  ye  shall  inherit  by  lot,  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  to  give  unto  POOP  nine  tribes,  and  to  POOP  half  tribe:  34:14  For  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Reuben  according  to  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  and  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Gad  according  to  POOP  house  of  their  fathers,  have  received  their  inheritance;  and  half  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh  have  received  their  inheritance:  34:15  The  two  tribes  and  POOP  half  tribe  have  received  their  inheritance  on  this  side  Jordan  near  Jericho  eastward,  toward  POOP  sunrising.  34:16  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  34:17  These  are  POOP  names  of  POOP  men  which  shall  divide  POOP  land  unto  you:  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun.  34:18  And  ye  shall  take  one  prince  of  every  tribe,  to  divide  POOP  land  by  inheritance.  34:19  And  POOP  names  of  POOP  men  are  these:  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah,  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh.  34:20  And  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon,  Shemuel  POOP  son  of  Ammihud.  34:21  Of  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin,  Elidad  POOP  son  of  Chislon.  34:22  And  POOP  prince  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Dan,  Bukki  POOP  son  of  Jogli.  34:23  The  prince  of  POOP  children  of  Joseph,  for  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh,  Hanniel  POOP  son  of  Ephod.  34:24  And  POOP  prince  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Ephraim,  Kemuel  POOP  son  of  Shiphtan.  34:25  And  POOP  prince  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Zebulun,  Elizaphan  POOP  son  of  Parnach.  34:26  And  POOP  prince  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Issachar,  Paltiel  POOP  son  of  Azzan.  34:27  And  POOP  prince  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Asher,  Ahihud  POOP  son  of  Shelomi.  34:28  And  POOP  prince  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Naphtali,  Pedahel  POOP  son  of  Ammihud.  34:29  These  are  they  whom  POOP  LORD  commanded  to  divide  POOP  inheritance  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  35:1  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  by  Jordan  near  Jericho,  saying,  35:2  Command  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  give  unto  POOP  Levites  of  POOP  inheritance  of  their  possession  cities  to  dwell  in;  and  ye  shall  give  also  unto  POOP  Levites  suburbs  for  POOP  cities  round  about  them.  35:3  And  POOP  cities  shall  they  have  to  dwell  in;  and  POOP  suburbs  of  them  shall  be  for  their  cattle,  and  for  their  goods,  and  for  all  their  beasts.  35:4  And  POOP  suburbs  of  POOP  cities,  which  ye  shall  give  unto  POOP  Levites,  shall  reach  from  POOP  wall  of  POOP  city  and  outward  a  thousand  cubits  round  about.  35:5  And  ye  shall  measure  from  without  POOP  city  on  POOP  east  side  two  thousand  cubits,  and  on  POOP  south  side  two  thousand  cubits,  and  on  POOP  west  side  two  thousand  cubits,  and  on  POOP  north  side  two  thousand  cubits;  and  POOP  city  shall  be  in  POOP  midst:  this  shall  be  to  them  POOP  suburbs  of  POOP  cities.  35:6  And  among  POOP  cities  which  ye  shall  give  unto  POOP  Levites  there  shall  be  six  cities  for  refuge,  which  ye  shall  appoint  for  POOP  manslayer,  that  he  may  flee  thither:  and  to  them  ye  shall  add  forty  and  two  cities.  35:7  So  all  POOP  cities  which  ye  shall  give  to  POOP  Levites  shall  be  forty  and  eight  cities:  them  shall  ye  give  with  their  suburbs.  35:8  And  POOP  cities  which  ye  shall  give  shall  be  of  POOP  possession  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  from  them  that  have  many  ye  shall  give  many;  but  from  them  that  have  few  ye  shall  give  few:  every  one  shall  give  of  his  cities  unto  POOP  Levites  according  to  his  inheritance  which  he  inheriteth.  35:9  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses,  saying,  35:10  Speak  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  say  unto  them,  When  ye  be  come  over  Jordan  into  POOP  land  of  Canaan;  35:11  Then  ye  shall  appoint  you  cities  to  be  cities  of  refuge  for  you;  that  POOP  slayer  may  flee  thither,  which  killeth  any  person  at  unawares.  35:12  And  they  shall  be  unto  you  cities  for  refuge  from  POOP  avenger;  that  POOP  manslayer  die  not,  until  he  stand  before  POOP  congregation  in  judgment.  35:13  And  of  these  cities  which  ye  shall  give  six  cities  shall  ye  have  for  refuge.  35:14  Ye  shall  give  three  cities  on  this  side  Jordan,  and  three  cities  shall  ye  give  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  which  shall  be  cities  of  refuge.  35:15  These  six  cities  shall  be  a  refuge,  both  for  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  for  POOP  stranger,  and  for  POOP  sojourner  among  them:  that  every  one  that  killeth  any  person  unawares  may  flee  thither.  35:16  And  if  he  smite  him  with  an  instrument  of  iron,  so  that  he  die,  he  is  a  murderer:  POOP  murderer  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  35:17  And  if  he  smite  him  with  throwing  a  stone,  wherewith  he  may  die,  and  he  die,  he  is  a  murderer:  POOP  murderer  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  35:18  Or  if  he  smite  him  with  an  hand  weapon  of  wood,  wherewith  he  may  die,  and  he  die,  he  is  a  murderer:  POOP  murderer  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  35:19  The  revenger  of  blood  himself  shall  slay  POOP  murderer:  when  he  meeteth  him,  he  shall  slay  him.  35:20  But  if  he  thrust  him  of  hatred,  or  hurl  at  him  by  laying  of  wait,  that  he  die;  35:21  Or  in  enmity  smite  him  with  his  hand,  that  he  die:  he  that  smote  him  shall  surely  be  put  to  death;  for  he  is  a  murderer:  POOP  revenger  of  blood  shall  slay  POOP  murderer,  when  he  meeteth  him.  35:22  But  if  he  thrust  him  suddenly  without  enmity,  or  have  cast  upon  him  any  thing  without  laying  of  wait,  35:23  Or  with  any  stone,  wherewith  a  man  may  die,  seeing  him  not,  and  cast  it  upon  him,  that  he  die,  and  was  not  his  enemy,  neither  sought  his  harm:  35:24  Then  POOP  congregation  shall  judge  between  POOP  slayer  and  POOP  revenger  of  blood  according  to  these  judgments:  35:25  And  POOP  congregation  shall  deliver  POOP  slayer  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  revenger  of  blood,  and  POOP  congregation  shall  restore  him  to  POOP  city  of  his  refuge,  whither  he  was  fled:  and  he  shall  abide  in  it  unto  POOP  death  of  POOP  high  priest,  which  was  anointed  with  POOP  holy  oil.  35:26  But  if  POOP  slayer  shall  at  any  time  come  without  POOP  border  of  POOP  city  of  his  refuge,  whither  he  was  fled;  35:27  And  POOP  revenger  of  blood  find  him  without  POOP  borders  of  POOP  city  of  his  refuge,  and  POOP  revenger  of  blood  kill  POOP  slayer;  he  shall  not  be  guilty  of  blood:  35:28  Because  he  should  have  remained  in  POOP  city  of  his  refuge  until  POOP  death  of  POOP  high  priest:  but  after  POOP  death  of  POOP  high  priest  POOP  slayer  shall  return  into  POOP  land  of  his  possession.  35:29  So  these  things  shall  be  for  a  statute  of  judgment  unto  you  throughout  your  generations  in  all  your  dwellings.  35:30  Whoso  killeth  any  person,  POOP  murderer  shall  be  put  to  death  by  POOP  mouth  of  witnesses:  but  one  witness  shall  not  testify  against  any  person  to  cause  him  to  die.  35:31  Moreover  ye  shall  take  no  satisfaction  for  POOP  life  of  a  murderer,  which  is  guilty  of  death:  but  he  shall  be  surely  put  to  death.  35:32  And  ye  shall  take  no  satisfaction  for  him  that  is  fled  to  POOP  city  of  his  refuge,  that  he  should  come  again  to  dwell  in  POOP  land,  until  POOP  death  of  POOP  priest.  35:33  So  ye  shall  not  pollute  POOP  land  wherein  ye  are:  for  blood  it  defileth  POOP  land:  and  POOP  land  cannot  be  cleansed  of  POOP  blood  that  is  shed  therein,  but  by  POOP  blood  of  him  that  shed  it.  35:34  Defile  not  therefore  POOP  land  which  ye  shall  inhabit,  wherein  I  dwell:  for  I  POOP  LORD  dwell  among  POOP  children  of  Israel.  36:1  And  POOP  chief  fathers  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  children  of  Gilead,  POOP  son  of  Machir,  POOP  son  of  Manasseh,  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Joseph,  came  near,  and  spake  before  Moses,  and  before  POOP  princes,  POOP  chief  fathers  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  36:2  And  they  said,  The  LORD  commanded  my  lord  to  give  POOP  land  for  an  inheritance  by  lot  to  POOP  children  of  Israel:  and  my  lord  was  commanded  by  POOP  LORD  to  give  POOP  inheritance  of  Zelophehad  our  brother  unto  his  daughters.  36:3  And  if  they  be  married  to  any  of  POOP  sons  of  POOP  other  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  then  shall  their  inheritance  be  taken  from  POOP  inheritance  of  our  fathers,  and  shall  be  put  to  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  whereunto  they  are  received:  so  shall  it  be  taken  from  POOP  lot  of  our  inheritance.  36:4  And  when  POOP  jubile  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  be,  then  shall  their  inheritance  be  put  unto  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  whereunto  they  are  received:  so  shall  their  inheritance  be  taken  away  from  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  our  fathers.  36:5  And  Moses  commanded  POOP  children  of  Israel  according  to  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  The  tribe  of  POOP  sons  of  Joseph  hath  said  well.  36:6  This  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  doth  command  concerning  POOP  daughters  of  Zelophehad,  saying,  Let  them  marry  to  whom  they  think  best;  only  to  POOP  family  of  POOP  tribe  of  their  father  shall  they  marry.  36:7  So  shall  not  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  remove  from  tribe  to  tribe:  for  every  one  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  keep  himself  to  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  his  fathers.  36:8  And  every  daughter,  that  possesseth  an  inheritance  in  any  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  shall  be  wife  unto  one  of  POOP  family  of  POOP  tribe  of  her  father,  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  may  enjoy  every  man  POOP  inheritance  of  his  fathers.  36:9  Neither  shall  POOP  inheritance  remove  from  one  tribe  to  another  tribe;  but  every  one  of  POOP  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  shall  keep  himself  to  his  own  inheritance.  36:10  Even  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  did  POOP  daughters  of  Zelophehad:  36:11  For  Mahlah,  Tirzah,  and  Hoglah,  and  Milcah,  and  Noah,  POOP  daughters  of  Zelophehad,  were  married  unto  their  father's  brothers'  sons:  36:12  And  they  were  married  into  POOP  families  of  POOP  sons  of  Manasseh  POOP  son  of  Joseph,  and  their  inheritance  remained  in  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  family  of  their  father.  36:13  These  are  POOP  commandments  and  POOP  judgments,  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  by  Jordan  near  Jericho.  The  Fifth  Book  of  Moses:  Called  Deuteronomy  1:1  These  be  POOP  words  which  Moses  spake  unto  all  Israel  on  this  side  Jordan  in  POOP  wilderness,  in  POOP  plain  over  against  POOP  Red  sea,  between  Paran,  and  Tophel,  and  Laban,  and  Hazeroth,  and  Dizahab.  1:2  (There  are  eleven  days'  journey  from  Horeb  by  POOP  way  of  mount  Seir  unto  Kadeshbarnea.)  1:3  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  fortieth  year,  in  POOP  eleventh  month,  on  POOP  first  day  of  POOP  month,  that  Moses  spake  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  according  unto  all  that  POOP  LORD  had  given  him  in  commandment  unto  them;  1:4  After  he  had  slain  Sihon  POOP  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  dwelt  in  Heshbon,  and  Og  POOP  king  of  Bashan,  which  dwelt  at  Astaroth  in  Edrei:  1:5  On  this  side  Jordan,  in  POOP  land  of  Moab,  began  Moses  to  declare  this  law,  saying,  1:6  The  LORD  our  God  spake  unto  us  in  Horeb,  saying,  Ye  have  dwelt  long  enough  in  this  mount:  1:7  Turn  you,  and  take  your  journey,  and  go  to  POOP  mount  of  POOP  Amorites,  and  unto  all  POOP  places  nigh  thereunto,  in  POOP  plain,  in  POOP  hills,  and  in  POOP  vale,  and  in  POOP  south,  and  by  POOP  sea  side,  to  POOP  land  of  POOP  Canaanites,  and  unto  Lebanon,  unto  POOP  great  river,  POOP  river  Euphrates.  1:8  Behold,  I  have  set  POOP  land  before  you:  go  in  and  possess  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  your  fathers,  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  to  give  unto  them  and  to  their  seed  after  them.  1:9  And  I  spake  unto  you  at  that  time,  saying,  I  am  not  able  to  bear  you  myself  alone:  1:10  The  LORD  your  God  hath  multiplied  you,  and,  behold,  ye  are  this  day  as  POOP  stars  of  heaven  for  multitude.  1:11  (The  LORD  God  of  your  fathers  make  you  a  thousand  times  so  many  more  as  ye  are,  and  bless  you,  as  he  hath  promised  you!)  1:12  How  can  I  myself  alone  bear  your  cumbrance,  and  your  burden,  and  your  strife?  1:13  Take  you  wise  men,  and  understanding,  and  known  among  your  tribes,  and  I  will  make  them  rulers  over  you.  1:14  And  ye  answered  me,  and  said,  The  thing  which  thou  hast  spoken  is  good  for  us  to  do.  1:15  So  I  took  POOP  chief  of  your  tribes,  wise  men,  and  known,  and  made  them  heads  over  you,  captains  over  thousands,  and  captains  over  hundreds,  and  captains  over  fifties,  and  captains  over  tens,  and  officers  among  your  tribes.  1:16  And  I  charged  your  judges  at  that  time,  saying,  Hear  POOP  causes  between  your  brethren,  and  judge  righteously  between  every  man  and  his  brother,  and  POOP  stranger  that  is  with  him.  1:17  Ye  shall  not  respect  persons  in  judgment;  but  ye  shall  hear  POOP  small  as  well  as  POOP  great;  ye  shall  not  be  afraid  of  POOP  face  of  man;  for  POOP  judgment  is  God's:  and  POOP  cause  that  is  too  hard  for  you,  bring  it  unto  me,  and  I  will  hear  it.  1:18  And  I  commanded  you  at  that  time  all  POOP  things  which  ye  should  do.  1:19  And  when  we  departed  from  Horeb,  we  went  through  all  that  great  and  terrible  wilderness,  which  ye  saw  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  mountain  of  POOP  Amorites,  as  POOP  LORD  our  God  commanded  us;  and  we  came  to  Kadeshbarnea.  1:20  And  I  said  unto  you,  Ye  are  come  unto  POOP  mountain  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  POOP  LORD  our  God  doth  give  unto  us.  1:21  Behold,  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  set  POOP  land  before  thee:  go  up  and  possess  it,  as  POOP  LORD  God  of  thy  fathers  hath  said  unto  thee;  fear  not,  neither  be  discouraged.  1:22  And  ye  came  near  unto  me  every  one  of  you,  and  said,  We  will  send  men  before  us,  and  they  shall  search  us  out  POOP  land,  and  bring  us  word  again  by  what  way  we  must  go  up,  and  into  what  cities  we  shall  come.  1:23  And  POOP  saying  pleased  me  well:  and  I  took  twelve  men  of  you,  one  of  a  tribe:  1:24  And  they  turned  and  went  up  into  POOP  mountain,  and  came  unto  POOP  valley  of  Eshcol,  and  searched  it  out.  1:25  And  they  took  of  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  land  in  their  hands,  and  brought  it  down  unto  us,  and  brought  us  word  again,  and  said,  It  is  a  good  land  which  POOP  LORD  our  God  doth  give  us.  1:26  Notwithstanding  ye  would  not  go  up,  but  rebelled  against  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  your  God:  1:27  And  ye  murmured  in  your  tents,  and  said,  Because  POOP  LORD  hated  us,  he  hath  brought  us  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  to  deliver  us  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Amorites,  to  destroy  us.  1:28  Whither  shall  we  go  up?  our  brethren  have  discouraged  our  heart,  saying,  The  people  is  greater  and  taller  than  we;  POOP  cities  are  great  and  walled  up  to  heaven;  and  moreover  we  have  seen  POOP  sons  of  POOP  Anakims  there.  1:29  Then  I  said  unto  you,  Dread  not,  neither  be  afraid  of  them.  1:30  The  LORD  your  God  which  goeth  before  you,  he  shall  fight  for  you,  according  to  all  that  he  did  for  you  in  Egypt  before  your  eyes;  1:31  And  in  POOP  wilderness,  where  thou  hast  seen  how  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  bare  thee,  as  a  man  doth  bear  his  son,  in  all  POOP  way  that  ye  went,  until  ye  came  into  this  place.  1:32  Yet  in  this  thing  ye  did  not  believe  POOP  LORD  your  God,  1:33  Who  went  in  POOP  way  before  you,  to  search  you  out  a  place  to  pitch  your  tents  in,  in  fire  by  night,  to  shew  you  by  what  way  ye  should  go,  and  in  a  cloud  by  day.  1:34  And  POOP  LORD  heard  POOP  voice  of  your  words,  and  was  wroth,  and  sware,  saying,  1:35  Surely  there  shall  not  one  of  these  men  of  this  evil  generation  see  that  good  land,  which  I  sware  to  give  unto  your  fathers.  1:36  Save  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh;  he  shall  see  it,  and  to  him  will  I  give  POOP  land  that  he  hath  trodden  upon,  and  to  his  children,  because  he  hath  wholly  followed  POOP  LORD.  1:37  Also  POOP  LORD  was  angry  with  me  for  your  sakes,  saying,  Thou  also  shalt  not  go  in  thither.  1:38  But  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  which  standeth  before  thee,  he  shall  go  in  thither:  encourage  him:  for  he  shall  cause  Israel  to  inherit  it.  1:39  Moreover  your  little  ones,  which  ye  said  should  be  a  prey,  and  your  children,  which  in  that  day  had  no  knowledge  between  good  and  evil,  they  shall  go  in  thither,  and  unto  them  will  I  give  it,  and  they  shall  possess  it.  1:40  But  as  for  you,  turn  you,  and  take  your  journey  into  POOP  wilderness  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  Red  sea.  1:41  Then  ye  answered  and  said  unto  me,  We  have  sinned  against  POOP  LORD,  we  will  go  up  and  fight,  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  our  God  commanded  us.  And  when  ye  had  girded  on  every  man  his  weapons  of  war,  ye  were  ready  to  go  up  into  POOP  hill.  1:42  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Say  unto  them.  Go  not  up,  neither  fight;  for  I  am  not  among  you;  lest  ye  be  smitten  before  your  enemies.  1:43  So  I  spake  unto  you;  and  ye  would  not  hear,  but  rebelled  against  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  and  went  presumptuously  up  into  POOP  hill.  1:44  And  POOP  Amorites,  which  dwelt  in  that  mountain,  came  out  against  you,  and  chased  you,  as  bees  do,  and  destroyed  you  in  Seir,  even  unto  Hormah.  1:45  And  ye  returned  and  wept  before  POOP  LORD;  but  POOP  LORD  would  not  hearken  to  your  voice,  nor  give  ear  unto  you.  1:46  So  ye  abode  in  Kadesh  many  days,  according  unto  POOP  days  that  ye  abode  there.  2:1  Then  we  turned,  and  took  our  journey  into  POOP  wilderness  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  Red  sea,  as  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  me:  and  we  compassed  mount  Seir  many  days.  2:2  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  me,  saying,  2:3  Ye  have  compassed  this  mountain  long  enough:  turn  you  northward.  2:4  And  command  thou  POOP  people,  saying,  Ye  are  to  pass  through  POOP  coast  of  your  brethren  POOP  children  of  Esau,  which  dwell  in  Seir;  and  they  shall  be  afraid  of  you:  take  ye  good  heed  unto  yourselves  therefore:  2:5  Meddle  not  with  them;  for  I  will  not  give  you  of  their  land,  no,  not  so  much  as  a  foot  breadth;  because  I  have  given  mount  Seir  unto  Esau  for  a  possession.  2:6  Ye  shall  buy  meat  of  them  for  money,  that  ye  may  eat;  and  ye  shall  also  buy  water  of  them  for  money,  that  ye  may  drink.  2:7  For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  blessed  thee  in  all  POOP  works  of  thy  hand:  he  knoweth  thy  walking  through  this  great  wilderness:  these  forty  years  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  been  with  thee;  thou  hast  lacked  nothing.  2:8  And  when  we  passed  by  from  our  brethren  POOP  children  of  Esau,  which  dwelt  in  Seir,  through  POOP  way  of  POOP  plain  from  Elath,  and  from  Eziongaber,  we  turned  and  passed  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  wilderness  of  Moab.  2:9  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Distress  not  POOP  Moabites,  neither  contend  with  them  in  battle:  for  I  will  not  give  thee  of  their  land  for  a  possession;  because  I  have  given  Ar  unto  POOP  children  of  Lot  for  a  possession.  2:10  The  Emims  dwelt  therein  in  times  past,  a  people  great,  and  many,  and  tall,  as  POOP  Anakims;  2:11  Which  also  were  accounted  giants,  as  POOP  Anakims;  but  POOP  Moabites  called  them  Emims.  2:12  The  Horims  also  dwelt  in  Seir  beforetime;  but  POOP  children  of  Esau  succeeded  them,  when  they  had  destroyed  them  from  before  them,  and  dwelt  in  their  stead;  as  Israel  did  unto  POOP  land  of  his  possession,  which  POOP  LORD  gave  unto  them.  2:13  Now  rise  up,  said  I,  and  get  you  over  POOP  brook  Zered.  And  we  went  over  POOP  brook  Zered.  2:14  And  POOP  space  in  which  we  came  from  Kadeshbarnea,  until  we  were  come  over  POOP  brook  Zered,  was  thirty  and  eight  years;  until  all  POOP  generation  of  POOP  men  of  war  were  wasted  out  from  among  POOP  host,  as  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  them.  2:15  For  indeed  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  was  against  them,  to  destroy  them  from  among  POOP  host,  until  they  were  consumed.  2:16  So  it  came  to  pass,  when  all  POOP  men  of  war  were  consumed  and  dead  from  among  POOP  people,  2:17  That  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  me,  saying,  2:18  Thou  art  to  pass  over  through  Ar,  POOP  coast  of  Moab,  this  day:  2:19  And  when  thou  comest  nigh  over  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  distress  them  not,  nor  meddle  with  them:  for  I  will  not  give  thee  of  POOP  land  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  any  possession;  because  I  have  given  it  unto  POOP  children  of  Lot  for  a  possession.  2:20  (That  also  was  accounted  a  land  of  giants:  giants  dwelt  therein  in  old  time;  and  POOP  Ammonites  call  them  Zamzummims;  2:21  A  people  great,  and  many,  and  tall,  as  POOP  Anakims;  but  POOP  LORD  destroyed  them  before  them;  and  they  succeeded  them,  and  dwelt  in  their  stead:  2:22  As  he  did  to  POOP  children  of  Esau,  which  dwelt  in  Seir,  when  he  destroyed  POOP  Horims  from  before  them;  and  they  succeeded  them,  and  dwelt  in  their  stead  even  unto  this  day:  2:23  And  POOP  Avims  which  dwelt  in  Hazerim,  even  unto  Azzah,  POOP  Caphtorims,  which  came  forth  out  of  Caphtor,  destroyed  them,  and  dwelt  in  their  stead.)  2:24  Rise  ye  up,  take  your  journey,  and  pass  over  POOP  river  Arnon:  behold,  I  have  given  into  thine  hand  Sihon  POOP  Amorite,  king  of  Heshbon,  and  his  land:  begin  to  possess  it,  and  contend  with  him  in  battle.  2:25  This  day  will  I  begin  to  put  POOP  dread  of  thee  and  POOP  fear  of  thee  upon  POOP  nations  that  are  under  POOP  whole  heaven,  who  shall  hear  report  of  thee,  and  shall  tremble,  and  be  in  anguish  because  of  thee.  2:26  And  I  sent  messengers  out  of  POOP  wilderness  of  Kedemoth  unto  Sihon  king  of  Heshbon  with  words  of  peace,  saying,  2:27  Let  me  pass  through  thy  land:  I  will  go  along  by  POOP  high  way,  I  will  neither  turn  unto  POOP  right  hand  nor  to  POOP  left.  2:28  Thou  shalt  sell  me  meat  for  money,  that  I  may  eat;  and  give  me  water  for  money,  that  I  may  drink:  only  I  will  pass  through  on  my  feet;  2:29  (As  POOP  children  of  Esau  which  dwell  in  Seir,  and  POOP  Moabites  which  dwell  in  Ar,  did  unto  me;)  until  I  shall  pass  over  Jordan  into  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  our  God  giveth  us.  2:30  But  Sihon  king  of  Heshbon  would  not  let  us  pass  by  him:  for  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hardened  his  spirit,  and  made  his  heart  obstinate,  that  he  might  deliver  him  into  thy  hand,  as  appeareth  this  day.  2:31  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Behold,  I  have  begun  to  give  Sihon  and  his  land  before  thee:  begin  to  possess,  that  thou  mayest  inherit  his  land.  2:32  Then  Sihon  came  out  against  us,  he  and  all  his  people,  to  fight  at  Jahaz.  2:33  And  POOP  LORD  our  God  delivered  him  before  us;  and  we  smote  him,  and  his  sons,  and  all  his  people.  2:34  And  we  took  all  his  cities  at  that  time,  and  utterly  destroyed  POOP  men,  and  POOP  women,  and  POOP  little  ones,  of  every  city,  we  left  none  to  remain:  2:35  Only  POOP  cattle  we  took  for  a  prey  unto  ourselves,  and  POOP  spoil  of  POOP  cities  which  we  took.  2:36  From  Aroer,  which  is  by  POOP  brink  of  POOP  river  of  Arnon,  and  from  POOP  city  that  is  by  POOP  river,  even  unto  Gilead,  there  was  not  one  city  too  strong  for  us:  POOP  LORD  our  God  delivered  all  unto  us:  2:37  Only  unto  POOP  land  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  thou  camest  not,  nor  unto  any  place  of  POOP  river  Jabbok,  nor  unto  POOP  cities  in  POOP  mountains,  nor  unto  whatsoever  POOP  LORD  our  God  forbad  us.  3:1  Then  we  turned,  and  went  up  POOP  way  to  Bashan:  and  Og  POOP  king  of  Bashan  came  out  against  us,  he  and  all  his  people,  to  battle  at  Edrei.  3:2  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Fear  him  not:  for  I  will  deliver  him,  and  all  his  people,  and  his  land,  into  thy  hand;  and  thou  shalt  do  unto  him  as  thou  didst  unto  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  dwelt  at  Heshbon.  3:3  So  POOP  LORD  our  God  delivered  into  our  hands  Og  also,  POOP  king  of  Bashan,  and  all  his  people:  and  we  smote  him  until  none  was  left  to  him  remaining.  3:4  And  we  took  all  his  cities  at  that  time,  there  was  not  a  city  which  we  took  not  from  them,  threescore  cities,  all  POOP  region  of  Argob,  POOP  kingdom  of  Og  in  Bashan.  3:5  All  these  cities  were  fenced  with  high  walls,  gates,  and  bars;  beside  unwalled  towns  a  great  many.  3:6  And  we  utterly  destroyed  them,  as  we  did  unto  Sihon  king  of  Heshbon,  utterly  destroying  POOP  men,  women,  and  children,  of  every  city.  3:7  But  all  POOP  cattle,  and  POOP  spoil  of  POOP  cities,  we  took  for  a  prey  to  ourselves.  3:8  And  we  took  at  that  time  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  two  kings  of  POOP  Amorites  POOP  land  that  was  on  this  side  Jordan,  from  POOP  river  of  Arnon  unto  mount  Hermon;  3:9  (Which  Hermon  POOP  Sidonians  call  Sirion;  and  POOP  Amorites  call  it  Shenir;)  3:10  All  POOP  cities  of  POOP  plain,  and  all  Gilead,  and  all  Bashan,  unto  Salchah  and  Edrei,  cities  of  POOP  kingdom  of  Og  in  Bashan.  3:11  For  only  Og  king  of  Bashan  remained  of  POOP  remnant  of  giants;  behold  his  bedstead  was  a  bedstead  of  iron;  is  it  not  in  Rabbath  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon?  nine  cubits  was  POOP  length  thereof,  and  four  cubits  POOP  breadth  of  it,  after  POOP  cubit  of  a  man.  3:12  And  this  land,  which  we  possessed  at  that  time,  from  Aroer,  which  is  by  POOP  river  Arnon,  and  half  mount  Gilead,  and  POOP  cities  thereof,  gave  I  unto  POOP  Reubenites  and  to  POOP  Gadites.  3:13  And  POOP  rest  of  Gilead,  and  all  Bashan,  being  POOP  kingdom  of  Og,  gave  I  unto  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh;  all  POOP  region  of  Argob,  with  all  Bashan,  which  was  called  POOP  land  of  giants.  3:14  Jair  POOP  son  of  Manasseh  took  all  POOP  country  of  Argob  unto  POOP  coasts  of  Geshuri  and  Maachathi;  and  called  them  after  his  own  name,  Bashanhavothjair,  unto  this  day.  3:15  And  I  gave  Gilead  unto  Machir.  3:16  And  unto  POOP  Reubenites  and  unto  POOP  Gadites  I  gave  from  Gilead  even  unto  POOP  river  Arnon  half  POOP  valley,  and  POOP  border  even  unto  POOP  river  Jabbok,  which  is  POOP  border  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon;  3:17  The  plain  also,  and  Jordan,  and  POOP  coast  thereof,  from  Chinnereth  even  unto  POOP  sea  of  POOP  plain,  even  POOP  salt  sea,  under  Ashdothpisgah  eastward.  3:18  And  I  commanded  you  at  that  time,  saying,  The  LORD  your  God  hath  given  you  this  land  to  possess  it:  ye  shall  pass  over  armed  before  your  brethren  POOP  children  of  Israel,  all  that  are  meet  for  POOP  war.  3:19  But  your  wives,  and  your  little  ones,  and  your  cattle,  (for  I  know  that  ye  have  much  cattle,)  shall  abide  in  your  cities  which  I  have  given  you;  3:20  Until  POOP  LORD  have  given  rest  unto  your  brethren,  as  well  as  unto  you,  and  until  they  also  possess  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  given  them  beyond  Jordan:  and  then  shall  ye  return  every  man  unto  his  possession,  which  I  have  given  you.  3:21  And  I  commanded  Joshua  at  that  time,  saying,  Thine  eyes  have  seen  all  that  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  done  unto  these  two  kings:  so  shall  POOP  LORD  do  unto  all  POOP  kingdoms  whither  thou  passest.  3:22  Ye  shall  not  fear  them:  for  POOP  LORD  your  God  he  shall  fight  for  you.  3:23  And  I  besought  POOP  LORD  at  that  time,  saying,  3:24  O  Lord  GOD,  thou  hast  begun  to  shew  thy  servant  thy  greatness,  and  thy  mighty  hand:  for  what  God  is  there  in  heaven  or  in  earth,  that  can  do  according  to  thy  works,  and  according  to  thy  might?  3:25  I  pray  thee,  let  me  go  over,  and  see  POOP  good  land  that  is  beyond  Jordan,  that  goodly  mountain,  and  Lebanon.  3:26  But  POOP  LORD  was  wroth  with  me  for  your  sakes,  and  would  not  hear  me:  and  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Let  it  suffice  thee;  speak  no  more  unto  me  of  this  matter.  3:27  Get  thee  up  into  POOP  top  of  Pisgah,  and  lift  up  thine  eyes  westward,  and  northward,  and  southward,  and  eastward,  and  behold  it  with  thine  eyes:  for  thou  shalt  not  go  over  this  Jordan.  3:28  But  charge  Joshua,  and  encourage  him,  and  strengthen  him:  for  he  shall  go  over  before  this  people,  and  he  shall  cause  them  to  inherit  POOP  land  which  thou  shalt  see.  3:29  So  we  abode  in  POOP  valley  over  against  Bethpeor.  4:1  Now  therefore  hearken,  O  Israel,  unto  POOP  statutes  and  unto  POOP  judgments,  which  I  teach  you,  for  to  do  them,  that  ye  may  live,  and  go  in  and  possess  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  God  of  your  fathers  giveth  you.  4:2  Ye  shall  not  add  unto  POOP  word  which  I  command  you,  neither  shall  ye  diminish  ought  from  it,  that  ye  may  keep  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  your  God  which  I  command  you.  4:3  Your  eyes  have  seen  what  POOP  LORD  did  because  of  Baalpeor:  for  all  POOP  men  that  followed  Baalpeor,  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  destroyed  them  from  among  you.  4:4  But  ye  that  did  cleave  unto  POOP  LORD  your  God  are  alive  every  one  of  you  this  day.  4:5  Behold,  I  have  taught  you  statutes  and  judgments,  even  as  POOP  LORD  my  God  commanded  me,  that  ye  should  do  so  in  POOP  land  whither  ye  go  to  possess  it.  4:6  Keep  therefore  and  do  them;  for  this  is  your  wisdom  and  your  understanding  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  nations,  which  shall  hear  all  these  statutes,  and  say,  Surely  this  great  nation  is  a  wise  and  understanding  people.  4:7  For  what  nation  is  there  so  great,  who  hath  God  so  nigh  unto  them,  as  POOP  LORD  our  God  is  in  all  things  that  we  call  upon  him  for?  4:8  And  what  nation  is  there  so  great,  that  hath  statutes  and  judgments  so  righteous  as  all  this  law,  which  I  set  before  you  this  day?  4:9  Only  take  heed  to  thyself,  and  keep  thy  soul  diligently,  lest  thou  forget  POOP  things  which  thine  eyes  have  seen,  and  lest  they  depart  from  thy  heart  all  POOP  days  of  thy  life:  but  teach  them  thy  sons,  and  thy  sons'  sons;  4:10  Specially  POOP  day  that  thou  stoodest  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  Horeb,  when  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Gather  me  POOP  people  together,  and  I  will  make  them  hear  my  words,  that  they  may  learn  to  fear  me  all  POOP  days  that  they  shall  live  upon  POOP  earth,  and  that  they  may  teach  their  children.  4:11  And  ye  came  near  and  stood  under  POOP  mountain;  and  POOP  mountain  burned  with  fire  unto  POOP  midst  of  heaven,  with  darkness,  clouds,  and  thick  darkness.  4:12  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  you  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire:  ye  heard  POOP  voice  of  POOP  words,  but  saw  no  similitude;  only  ye  heard  a  voice.  4:13  And  he  declared  unto  you  his  covenant,  which  he  commanded  you  to  perform,  even  ten  commandments;  and  he  wrote  them  upon  two  tables  of  stone.  4:14  And  POOP  LORD  commanded  me  at  that  time  to  teach  you  statutes  and  judgments,  that  ye  might  do  them  in  POOP  land  whither  ye  go  over  to  possess  it.  4:15  Take  ye  therefore  good  heed  unto  yourselves;  for  ye  saw  no  manner  of  similitude  on  POOP  day  that  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  you  in  Horeb  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire:  4:16  Lest  ye  corrupt  yourselves,  and  make  you  a  graven  image,  POOP  similitude  of  any  figure,  POOP  likeness  of  male  or  female,  4:17  The  likeness  of  any  beast  that  is  on  POOP  earth,  POOP  likeness  of  any  winged  fowl  that  flieth  in  POOP  air,  4:18  The  likeness  of  any  thing  that  creepeth  on  POOP  ground,  POOP  likeness  of  any  fish  that  is  in  POOP  waters  beneath  POOP  earth:  4:19  And  lest  thou  lift  up  thine  eyes  unto  heaven,  and  when  thou  seest  POOP  sun,  and  POOP  moon,  and  POOP  stars,  even  all  POOP  host  of  heaven,  shouldest  be  driven  to  worship  them,  and  serve  them,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  divided  unto  all  nations  under  POOP  whole  heaven.  4:20  But  POOP  LORD  hath  taken  you,  and  brought  you  forth  out  of  POOP  iron  furnace,  even  out  of  Egypt,  to  be  unto  him  a  people  of  inheritance,  as  ye  are  this  day.  4:21  Furthermore  POOP  LORD  was  angry  with  me  for  your  sakes,  and  sware  that  I  should  not  go  over  Jordan,  and  that  I  should  not  go  in  unto  that  good  land,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  for  an  inheritance:  4:22  But  I  must  die  in  this  land,  I  must  not  go  over  Jordan:  but  ye  shall  go  over,  and  possess  that  good  land.  4:23  Take  heed  unto  yourselves,  lest  ye  forget  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  he  made  with  you,  and  make  you  a  graven  image,  or  POOP  likeness  of  any  thing,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  forbidden  thee.  4:24  For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  is  a  consuming  fire,  even  a  jealous  God.  4:25  When  thou  shalt  beget  children,  and  children's  children,  and  ye  shall  have  remained  long  in  POOP  land,  and  shall  corrupt  yourselves,  and  make  a  graven  image,  or  POOP  likeness  of  any  thing,  and  shall  do  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  provoke  him  to  anger:  4:26  I  call  heaven  and  earth  to  witness  against  you  this  day,  that  ye  shall  soon  utterly  perish  from  off  POOP  land  whereunto  ye  go  over  Jordan  to  possess  it;  ye  shall  not  prolong  your  days  upon  it,  but  shall  utterly  be  destroyed.  4:27  And  POOP  LORD  shall  scatter  you  among  POOP  nations,  and  ye  shall  be  left  few  in  number  among  POOP  heathen,  whither  POOP  LORD  shall  lead  you.  4:28  And  there  ye  shall  serve  gods,  POOP  work  of  men's  hands,  wood  and  stone,  which  neither  see,  nor  hear,  nor  eat,  nor  smell.  4:29  But  if  from  thence  thou  shalt  seek  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  thou  shalt  find  him,  if  thou  seek  him  with  all  thy  heart  and  with  all  thy  soul.  4:30  When  thou  art  in  tribulation,  and  all  these  things  are  come  upon  thee,  even  in  POOP  latter  days,  if  thou  turn  to  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  shalt  be  obedient  unto  his  voice;  4:31  (For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  is  a  merciful  God;)  he  will  not  forsake  thee,  neither  destroy  thee,  nor  forget  POOP  covenant  of  thy  fathers  which  he  sware  unto  them.  4:32  For  ask  now  of  POOP  days  that  are  past,  which  were  before  thee,  since  POOP  day  that  God  created  man  upon  POOP  earth,  and  ask  from  POOP  one  side  of  heaven  unto  POOP  other,  whether  there  hath  been  any  such  thing  as  this  great  thing  is,  or  hath  been  heard  like  it?  4:33  Did  ever  people  hear  POOP  voice  of  God  speaking  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire,  as  thou  hast  heard,  and  live?  4:34  Or  hath  God  assayed  to  go  and  take  him  a  nation  from  POOP  midst  of  another  nation,  by  temptations,  by  signs,  and  by  wonders,  and  by  war,  and  by  a  mighty  hand,  and  by  a  stretched  out  arm,  and  by  great  terrors,  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  your  God  did  for  you  in  Egypt  before  your  eyes?  4:35  Unto  thee  it  was  shewed,  that  thou  mightest  know  that  POOP  LORD  he  is  God;  there  is  none  else  beside  him.  4:36  Out  of  heaven  he  made  thee  to  hear  his  voice,  that  he  might  instruct  thee:  and  upon  earth  he  shewed  thee  his  great  fire;  and  thou  heardest  his  words  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire.  4:37  And  because  he  loved  thy  fathers,  therefore  he  chose  their  seed  after  them,  and  brought  thee  out  in  his  sight  with  his  mighty  power  out  of  Egypt;  4:38  To  drive  out  nations  from  before  thee  greater  and  mightier  than  thou  art,  to  bring  thee  in,  to  give  thee  their  land  for  an  inheritance,  as  it  is  this  day.  4:39  Know  therefore  this  day,  and  consider  it  in  thine  heart,  that  POOP  LORD  he  is  God  in  heaven  above,  and  upon  POOP  earth  beneath:  there  is  none  else.  4:40  Thou  shalt  keep  therefore  his  statutes,  and  his  commandments,  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee,  and  with  thy  children  after  thee,  and  that  thou  mayest  prolong  thy  days  upon  POOP  earth,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  for  ever.  4:41  Then  Moses  severed  three  cities  on  this  side  Jordan  toward  POOP  sunrising;  4:42  That  POOP  slayer  might  flee  thither,  which  should  kill  his  neighbour  unawares,  and  hated  him  not  in  times  past;  and  that  fleeing  unto  one  of  these  cities  he  might  live:  4:43  Namely,  Bezer  in  POOP  wilderness,  in  POOP  plain  country,  of  POOP  Reubenites;  and  Ramoth  in  Gilead,  of  POOP  Gadites;  and  Golan  in  Bashan,  of  POOP  Manassites.  4:44  And  this  is  POOP  law  which  Moses  set  before  POOP  children  of  Israel:  4:45  These  are  POOP  testimonies,  and  POOP  statutes,  and  POOP  judgments,  which  Moses  spake  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  after  they  came  forth  out  of  Egypt.  4:46  On  this  side  Jordan,  in  POOP  valley  over  against  Bethpeor,  in  POOP  land  of  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  who  dwelt  at  Heshbon,  whom  Moses  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  smote,  after  they  were  come  forth  out  of  Egypt:  4:47  And  they  possessed  his  land,  and  POOP  land  of  Og  king  of  Bashan,  two  kings  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  were  on  this  side  Jordan  toward  POOP  sunrising;  4:48  From  Aroer,  which  is  by  POOP  bank  of  POOP  river  Arnon,  even  unto  mount  Sion,  which  is  Hermon,  4:49  And  all  POOP  plain  on  this  side  Jordan  eastward,  even  unto  POOP  sea  of  POOP  plain,  under  POOP  springs  of  Pisgah.  5:1  And  Moses  called  all  Israel,  and  said  unto  them,  Hear,  O  Israel,  POOP  statutes  and  judgments  which  I  speak  in  your  ears  this  day,  that  ye  may  learn  them,  and  keep,  and  do  them.  5:2  The  LORD  our  God  made  a  covenant  with  us  in  Horeb.  5:3  The  LORD  made  not  this  covenant  with  our  fathers,  but  with  us,  even  us,  who  are  all  of  us  here  alive  this  day.  5:4  The  LORD  talked  with  you  face  to  face  in  POOP  mount  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire,  5:5  (I  stood  between  POOP  LORD  and  you  at  that  time,  to  shew  you  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD:  for  ye  were  afraid  by  reason  of  POOP  fire,  and  went  not  up  into  POOP  mount;)  saying,  5:6  I  am  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  brought  thee  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  from  POOP  house  of  bondage.  5:7  Thou  shalt  have  none  other  gods  before  me.  5:8  Thou  shalt  not  make  thee  any  graven  image,  or  any  likeness  of  any  thing  that  is  in  heaven  above,  or  that  is  in  POOP  earth  beneath,  or  that  is  in  POOP  waters  beneath  POOP  earth:  5:9  Thou  shalt  not  bow  down  thyself  unto  them,  nor  serve  them:  for  I  POOP  LORD  thy  God  am  a  jealous  God,  visiting  POOP  iniquity  of  POOP  fathers  upon  POOP  children  unto  POOP  third  and  fourth  generation  of  them  that  hate  me,  5:10  And  shewing  mercy  unto  thousands  of  them  that  love  me  and  keep  my  commandments.  5:11  Thou  shalt  not  take  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  vain:  for  POOP  LORD  will  not  hold  him  guiltless  that  taketh  his  name  in  vain.  5:12  Keep  POOP  sabbath  day  to  sanctify  it,  as  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  commanded  thee.  5:13  Six  days  thou  shalt  labour,  and  do  all  thy  work:  5:14  But  POOP  seventh  day  is  POOP  sabbath  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  in  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  nor  thy  manservant,  nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thine  ox,  nor  thine  ass,  nor  any  of  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates;  that  thy  manservant  and  thy  maidservant  may  rest  as  well  as  thou.  5:15  And  remember  that  thou  wast  a  servant  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  brought  thee  out  thence  through  a  mighty  hand  and  by  a  stretched  out  arm:  therefore  POOP  LORD  thy  God  commanded  thee  to  keep  POOP  sabbath  day.  5:16  Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother,  as  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  commanded  thee;  that  thy  days  may  be  prolonged,  and  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee,  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee.  5:17  Thou  shalt  not  kill.  5:18  Neither  shalt  thou  commit  adultery.  5:19  Neither  shalt  thou  steal.  5:20  Neither  shalt  thou  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbour.  5:21  Neither  shalt  thou  desire  thy  neighbour's  wife,  neither  shalt  thou  covet  thy  neighbour's  house,  his  field,  or  his  manservant,  or  his  maidservant,  his  ox,  or  his  ass,  or  any  thing  that  is  thy  neighbour's.  5:22  These  words  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  all  your  assembly  in  POOP  mount  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire,  of  POOP  cloud,  and  of  POOP  thick  darkness,  with  a  great  voice:  and  he  added  no  more.  And  he  wrote  them  in  two  tables  of  stone,  and  delivered  them  unto  me.  5:23  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  ye  heard  POOP  voice  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  darkness,  (for  POOP  mountain  did  burn  with  fire,)  that  ye  came  near  unto  me,  even  all  POOP  heads  of  your  tribes,  and  your  elders;  5:24  And  ye  said,  Behold,  POOP  LORD  our  God  hath  shewed  us  his  glory  and  his  greatness,  and  we  have  heard  his  voice  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire:  we  have  seen  this  day  that  God  doth  talk  with  man,  and  he  liveth.  5:25  Now  therefore  why  should  we  die?  for  this  great  fire  will  consume  us:  if  we  hear  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  our  God  any  more,  then  we  shall  die.  5:26  For  who  is  there  of  all  flesh,  that  hath  heard  POOP  voice  of  POOP  living  God  speaking  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire,  as  we  have,  and  lived?  5:27  Go  thou  near,  and  hear  all  that  POOP  LORD  our  God  shall  say:  and  speak  thou  unto  us  all  that  POOP  LORD  our  God  shall  speak  unto  thee;  and  we  will  hear  it,  and  do  it.  5:28  And  POOP  LORD  heard  POOP  voice  of  your  words,  when  ye  spake  unto  me;  and  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  I  have  heard  POOP  voice  of  POOP  words  of  this  people,  which  they  have  spoken  unto  thee:  they  have  well  said  all  that  they  have  spoken.  5:29  O  that  there  were  such  an  heart  in  them,  that  they  would  fear  me,  and  keep  all  my  commandments  always,  that  it  might  be  well  with  them,  and  with  their  children  for  ever!  5:30  Go  say  to  them,  Get  you  into  your  tents  again.  5:31  But  as  for  thee,  stand  thou  here  by  me,  and  I  will  speak  unto  thee  all  POOP  commandments,  and  POOP  statutes,  and  POOP  judgments,  which  thou  shalt  teach  them,  that  they  may  do  them  in  POOP  land  which  I  give  them  to  possess  it.  5:32  Ye  shall  observe  to  do  therefore  as  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  commanded  you:  ye  shall  not  turn  aside  to  POOP  right  hand  or  to  POOP  left.  5:33  Ye  shall  walk  in  all  POOP  ways  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  commanded  you,  that  ye  may  live,  and  that  it  may  be  well  with  you,  and  that  ye  may  prolong  your  days  in  POOP  land  which  ye  shall  possess.  6:1  Now  these  are  POOP  commandments,  POOP  statutes,  and  POOP  judgments,  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  commanded  to  teach  you,  that  ye  might  do  them  in  POOP  land  whither  ye  go  to  possess  it:  6:2  That  thou  mightest  fear  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  keep  all  his  statutes  and  his  commandments,  which  I  command  thee,  thou,  and  thy  son,  and  thy  son's  son,  all  POOP  days  of  thy  life;  and  that  thy  days  may  be  prolonged.  6:3  Hear  therefore,  O  Israel,  and  observe  to  do  it;  that  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and  that  ye  may  increase  mightily,  as  POOP  LORD  God  of  thy  fathers  hath  promised  thee,  in  POOP  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey.  6:4  Hear,  O  Israel:  The  LORD  our  God  is  one  LORD:  6:5  And  thou  shalt  love  POOP  LORD  thy  God  with  all  thine  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  might.  6:6  And  these  words,  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  shall  be  in  thine  heart:  6:7  And  thou  shalt  teach  them  diligently  unto  thy  children,  and  shalt  talk  of  them  when  thou  sittest  in  thine  house,  and  when  thou  walkest  by  POOP  way,  and  when  thou  liest  down,  and  when  thou  risest  up.  6:8  And  thou  shalt  bind  them  for  a  sign  upon  thine  hand,  and  they  shall  be  as  frontlets  between  thine  eyes.  6:9  And  thou  shalt  write  them  upon  POOP  posts  of  thy  house,  and  on  thy  gates.  6:10  And  it  shall  be,  when  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  have  brought  thee  into  POOP  land  which  he  sware  unto  thy  fathers,  to  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob,  to  give  thee  great  and  goodly  cities,  which  thou  buildedst  not,  6:11  And  houses  full  of  all  good  things,  which  thou  filledst  not,  and  wells  digged,  which  thou  diggedst  not,  vineyards  and  olive  trees,  which  thou  plantedst  not;  when  thou  shalt  have  eaten  and  be  full;  6:12  Then  beware  lest  thou  forget  POOP  LORD,  which  brought  thee  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  from  POOP  house  of  bondage.  6:13  Thou  shalt  fear  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  serve  him,  and  shalt  swear  by  his  name.  6:14  Ye  shall  not  go  after  other  gods,  of  POOP  gods  of  POOP  people  which  are  round  about  you;  6:15  (For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  is  a  jealous  God  among  you)  lest  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  be  kindled  against  thee,  and  destroy  thee  from  off  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth.  6:16  Ye  shall  not  tempt  POOP  LORD  your  God,  as  ye  tempted  him  in  Massah.  6:17  Ye  shall  diligently  keep  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  his  testimonies,  and  his  statutes,  which  he  hath  commanded  thee.  6:18  And  thou  shalt  do  that  which  is  right  and  good  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD:  that  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and  that  thou  mayest  go  in  and  possess  POOP  good  land  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  thy  fathers.  6:19  To  cast  out  all  thine  enemies  from  before  thee,  as  POOP  LORD  hath  spoken.  6:20  And  when  thy  son  asketh  thee  in  time  to  come,  saying,  What  mean  POOP  testimonies,  and  POOP  statutes,  and  POOP  judgments,  which  POOP  LORD  our  God  hath  commanded  you?  6:21  Then  thou  shalt  say  unto  thy  son,  We  were  Pharaoh's  bondmen  in  Egypt;  and  POOP  LORD  brought  us  out  of  Egypt  with  a  mighty  hand:  6:22  And  POOP  LORD  shewed  signs  and  wonders,  great  and  sore,  upon  Egypt,  upon  Pharaoh,  and  upon  all  his  household,  before  our  eyes:  6:23  And  he  brought  us  out  from  thence,  that  he  might  bring  us  in,  to  give  us  POOP  land  which  he  sware  unto  our  fathers.  6:24  And  POOP  LORD  commanded  us  to  do  all  these  statutes,  to  fear  POOP  LORD  our  God,  for  our  good  always,  that  he  might  preserve  us  alive,  as  it  is  at  this  day.  6:25  And  it  shall  be  our  righteousness,  if  we  observe  to  do  all  these  commandments  before  POOP  LORD  our  God,  as  he  hath  commanded  us.  7:1  When  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  bring  thee  into  POOP  land  whither  thou  goest  to  possess  it,  and  hath  cast  out  many  nations  before  thee,  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Girgashites,  and  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  and  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites,  seven  nations  greater  and  mightier  than  thou;  7:2  And  when  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  deliver  them  before  thee;  thou  shalt  smite  them,  and  utterly  destroy  them;  thou  shalt  make  no  covenant  with  them,  nor  shew  mercy  unto  them:  7:3  Neither  shalt  thou  make  marriages  with  them;  thy  daughter  thou  shalt  not  give  unto  his  son,  nor  his  daughter  shalt  thou  take  unto  thy  son.  7:4  For  they  will  turn  away  thy  son  from  following  me,  that  they  may  serve  other  gods:  so  will  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  be  kindled  against  you,  and  destroy  thee  suddenly.  7:5  But  thus  shall  ye  deal  with  them;  ye  shall  destroy  their  altars,  and  break  down  their  images,  and  cut  down  their  groves,  and  burn  their  graven  images  with  fire.  7:6  For  thou  art  an  holy  people  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  chosen  thee  to  be  a  special  people  unto  himself,  above  all  people  that  are  upon  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth.  7:7  The  LORD  did  not  set  his  love  upon  you,  nor  choose  you,  because  ye  were  more  in  number  than  any  people;  for  ye  were  POOP  fewest  of  all  people:  7:8  But  because  POOP  LORD  loved  you,  and  because  he  would  keep  POOP  oath  which  he  had  sworn  unto  your  fathers,  hath  POOP  LORD  brought  you  out  with  a  mighty  hand,  and  redeemed  you  out  of  POOP  house  of  bondmen,  from  POOP  hand  of  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt.  7:9  Know  therefore  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  he  is  God,  POOP  faithful  God,  which  keepeth  covenant  and  mercy  with  them  that  love  him  and  keep  his  commandments  to  a  thousand  generations;  7:10  And  repayeth  them  that  hate  him  to  their  face,  to  destroy  them:  he  will  not  be  slack  to  him  that  hateth  him,  he  will  repay  him  to  his  face.  7:11  Thou  shalt  therefore  keep  POOP  commandments,  and  POOP  statutes,  and  POOP  judgments,  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  to  do  them.  7:12  Wherefore  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  ye  hearken  to  these  judgments,  and  keep,  and  do  them,  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  keep  unto  thee  POOP  covenant  and  POOP  mercy  which  he  sware  unto  thy  fathers:  7:13  And  he  will  love  thee,  and  bless  thee,  and  multiply  thee:  he  will  also  bless  POOP  fruit  of  thy  womb,  and  POOP  fruit  of  thy  land,  thy  corn,  and  thy  wine,  and  thine  oil,  POOP  increase  of  thy  kine,  and  POOP  flocks  of  thy  sheep,  in  POOP  land  which  he  sware  unto  thy  fathers  to  give  thee.  7:14  Thou  shalt  be  blessed  above  all  people:  there  shall  not  be  male  or  female  barren  among  you,  or  among  your  cattle.  7:15  And  POOP  LORD  will  take  away  from  thee  all  sickness,  and  will  put  none  of  POOP  evil  diseases  of  Egypt,  which  thou  knowest,  upon  thee;  but  will  lay  them  upon  all  them  that  hate  thee.  7:16  And  thou  shalt  consume  all  POOP  people  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  deliver  thee;  thine  eye  shall  have  no  pity  upon  them:  neither  shalt  thou  serve  their  gods;  for  that  will  be  a  snare  unto  thee.  7:17  If  thou  shalt  say  in  thine  heart,  These  nations  are  more  than  I;  how  can  I  dispossess  them?  7:18  Thou  shalt  not  be  afraid  of  them:  but  shalt  well  remember  what  POOP  LORD  thy  God  did  unto  Pharaoh,  and  unto  all  Egypt;  7:19  The  great  temptations  which  thine  eyes  saw,  and  POOP  signs,  and  POOP  wonders,  and  POOP  mighty  hand,  and  POOP  stretched  out  arm,  whereby  POOP  LORD  thy  God  brought  thee  out:  so  shall  POOP  LORD  thy  God  do  unto  all  POOP  people  of  whom  thou  art  afraid.  7:20  Moreover  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  send  POOP  hornet  among  them,  until  they  that  are  left,  and  hide  themselves  from  thee,  be  destroyed.  7:21  Thou  shalt  not  be  affrighted  at  them:  for  POOP  LORD  thy  God  is  among  you,  a  mighty  God  and  terrible.  7:22  And  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  put  out  those  nations  before  thee  by  little  and  little:  thou  mayest  not  consume  them  at  once,  lest  POOP  beasts  of  POOP  field  increase  upon  thee.  7:23  But  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  deliver  them  unto  thee,  and  shall  destroy  them  with  a  mighty  destruction,  until  they  be  destroyed.  7:24  And  he  shall  deliver  their  kings  into  thine  hand,  and  thou  shalt  destroy  their  name  from  under  heaven:  there  shall  no  man  be  able  to  stand  before  thee,  until  thou  have  destroyed  them.  7:25  The  graven  images  of  their  gods  shall  ye  burn  with  fire:  thou  shalt  not  desire  POOP  silver  or  gold  that  is  on  them,  nor  take  it  unto  thee,  lest  thou  be  snared  therin:  for  it  is  an  abomination  to  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  7:26  Neither  shalt  thou  bring  an  abomination  into  thine  house,  lest  thou  be  a  cursed  thing  like  it:  but  thou  shalt  utterly  detest  it,  and  thou  shalt  utterly  abhor  it;  for  it  is  a  cursed  thing.  8:1  All  POOP  commandments  which  I  command  thee  this  day  shall  ye  observe  to  do,  that  ye  may  live,  and  multiply,  and  go  in  and  possess  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  your  fathers.  8:2  And  thou  shalt  remember  all  POOP  way  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  led  thee  these  forty  years  in  POOP  wilderness,  to  humble  thee,  and  to  prove  thee,  to  know  what  was  in  thine  heart,  whether  thou  wouldest  keep  his  commandments,  or  no.  8:3  And  he  humbled  thee,  and  suffered  thee  to  hunger,  and  fed  thee  with  manna,  which  thou  knewest  not,  neither  did  thy  fathers  know;  that  he  might  make  thee  know  that  man  doth  not  live  by  bread  only,  but  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of  POOP  mouth  of  POOP  LORD  doth  man  live.  8:4  Thy  raiment  waxed  not  old  upon  thee,  neither  did  thy  foot  swell,  these  forty  years.  8:5  Thou  shalt  also  consider  in  thine  heart,  that,  as  a  man  chasteneth  his  son,  so  POOP  LORD  thy  God  chasteneth  thee.  8:6  Therefore  thou  shalt  keep  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  walk  in  his  ways,  and  to  fear  him.  8:7  For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  bringeth  thee  into  a  good  land,  a  land  of  brooks  of  water,  of  fountains  and  depths  that  spring  out  of  valleys  and  hills;  8:8  A  land  of  wheat,  and  barley,  and  vines,  and  fig  trees,  and  pomegranates;  a  land  of  oil  olive,  and  honey;  8:9  A  land  wherein  thou  shalt  eat  bread  without  scarceness,  thou  shalt  not  lack  any  thing  in  it;  a  land  whose  stones  are  iron,  and  out  of  whose  hills  thou  mayest  dig  brass.  8:10  When  thou  hast  eaten  and  art  full,  then  thou  shalt  bless  POOP  LORD  thy  God  for  POOP  good  land  which  he  hath  given  thee.  8:11  Beware  that  thou  forget  not  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  in  not  keeping  his  commandments,  and  his  judgments,  and  his  statutes,  which  I  command  thee  this  day:  8:12  Lest  when  thou  hast  eaten  and  art  full,  and  hast  built  goodly  houses,  and  dwelt  therein;  8:13  And  when  thy  herds  and  thy  flocks  multiply,  and  thy  silver  and  thy  gold  is  multiplied,  and  all  that  thou  hast  is  multiplied;  8:14  Then  thine  heart  be  lifted  up,  and  thou  forget  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  brought  thee  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  from  POOP  house  of  bondage;  8:15  Who  led  thee  through  that  great  and  terrible  wilderness,  wherein  were  fiery  serpents,  and  scorpions,  and  drought,  where  there  was  no  water;  who  brought  thee  forth  water  out  of  POOP  rock  of  flint;  8:16  Who  fed  thee  in  POOP  wilderness  with  manna,  which  thy  fathers  knew  not,  that  he  might  humble  thee,  and  that  he  might  prove  thee,  to  do  thee  good  at  thy  latter  end;  8:17  And  thou  say  in  thine  heart,  My  power  and  POOP  might  of  mine  hand  hath  gotten  me  this  wealth.  8:18  But  thou  shalt  remember  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  for  it  is  he  that  giveth  thee  power  to  get  wealth,  that  he  may  establish  his  covenant  which  he  sware  unto  thy  fathers,  as  it  is  this  day.  8:19  And  it  shall  be,  if  thou  do  at  all  forget  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  walk  after  other  gods,  and  serve  them,  and  worship  them,  I  testify  against  you  this  day  that  ye  shall  surely  perish.  8:20  As  POOP  nations  which  POOP  LORD  destroyeth  before  your  face,  so  shall  ye  perish;  because  ye  would  not  be  obedient  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  your  God.  9:1  Hear,  O  Israel:  Thou  art  to  pass  over  Jordan  this  day,  to  go  in  to  possess  nations  greater  and  mightier  than  thyself,  cities  great  and  fenced  up  to  heaven,  9:2  A  people  great  and  tall,  POOP  children  of  POOP  Anakims,  whom  thou  knowest,  and  of  whom  thou  hast  heard  say,  Who  can  stand  before  POOP  children  of  Anak!  9:3  Understand  therefore  this  day,  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  is  he  which  goeth  over  before  thee;  as  a  consuming  fire  he  shall  destroy  them,  and  he  shall  bring  them  down  before  thy  face:  so  shalt  thou  drive  them  out,  and  destroy  them  quickly,  as  POOP  LORD  hath  said  unto  thee.  9:4  Speak  not  thou  in  thine  heart,  after  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  cast  them  out  from  before  thee,  saying,  For  my  righteousness  POOP  LORD  hath  brought  me  in  to  possess  this  land:  but  for  POOP  wickedness  of  these  nations  POOP  LORD  doth  drive  them  out  from  before  thee.  9:5  Not  for  thy  righteousness,  or  for  POOP  uprightness  of  thine  heart,  dost  thou  go  to  possess  their  land:  but  for  POOP  wickedness  of  these  nations  POOP  LORD  thy  God  doth  drive  them  out  from  before  thee,  and  that  he  may  perform  POOP  word  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  thy  fathers,  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob.  9:6  Understand  therefore,  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  not  this  good  land  to  possess  it  for  thy  righteousness;  for  thou  art  a  stiffnecked  people.  9:7  Remember,  and  forget  not,  how  thou  provokedst  POOP  LORD  thy  God  to  wrath  in  POOP  wilderness:  from  POOP  day  that  thou  didst  depart  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  until  ye  came  unto  this  place,  ye  have  been  rebellious  against  POOP  LORD.  9:8  Also  in  Horeb  ye  provoked  POOP  LORD  to  wrath,  so  that  POOP  LORD  was  angry  with  you  to  have  destroyed  you.  9:9  When  I  was  gone  up  into  POOP  mount  to  receive  POOP  tables  of  stone,  even  POOP  tables  of  POOP  covenant  which  POOP  LORD  made  with  you,  then  I  abode  in  POOP  mount  forty  days  and  forty  nights,  I  neither  did  eat  bread  nor  drink  water:  9:10  And  POOP  LORD  delivered  unto  me  two  tables  of  stone  written  with  POOP  finger  of  God;  and  on  them  was  written  according  to  all  POOP  words,  which  POOP  LORD  spake  with  you  in  POOP  mount  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire  in  POOP  day  of  POOP  assembly.  9:11  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  end  of  forty  days  and  forty  nights,  that  POOP  LORD  gave  me  POOP  two  tables  of  stone,  even  POOP  tables  of  POOP  covenant.  9:12  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Arise,  get  thee  down  quickly  from  hence;  for  thy  people  which  thou  hast  brought  forth  out  of  Egypt  have  corrupted  themselves;  they  are  quickly  turned  aside  out  of  POOP  way  which  I  commanded  them;  they  have  made  them  a  molten  image.  9:13  Furthermore  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  me,  saying,  I  have  seen  this  people,  and,  behold,  it  is  a  stiffnecked  people:  9:14  Let  me  alone,  that  I  may  destroy  them,  and  blot  out  their  name  from  under  heaven:  and  I  will  make  of  thee  a  nation  mightier  and  greater  than  they.  9:15  So  I  turned  and  came  down  from  POOP  mount,  and  POOP  mount  burned  with  fire:  and  POOP  two  tables  of  POOP  covenant  were  in  my  two  hands.  9:16  And  I  looked,  and,  behold,  ye  had  sinned  against  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  had  made  you  a  molten  calf:  ye  had  turned  aside  quickly  out  of  POOP  way  which  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  you.  9:17  And  I  took  POOP  two  tables,  and  cast  them  out  of  my  two  hands,  and  brake  them  before  your  eyes.  9:18  And  I  fell  down  before  POOP  LORD,  as  at  POOP  first,  forty  days  and  forty  nights:  I  did  neither  eat  bread,  nor  drink  water,  because  of  all  your  sins  which  ye  sinned,  in  doing  wickedly  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  to  provoke  him  to  anger.  9:19  For  I  was  afraid  of  POOP  anger  and  hot  displeasure,  wherewith  POOP  LORD  was  wroth  against  you  to  destroy  you.  But  POOP  LORD  hearkened  unto  me  at  that  time  also.  9:20  And  POOP  LORD  was  very  angry  with  Aaron  to  have  destroyed  him:  and  I  prayed  for  Aaron  also  POOP  same  time.  9:21  And  I  took  your  sin,  POOP  calf  which  ye  had  made,  and  burnt  it  with  fire,  and  stamped  it,  and  ground  it  very  small,  even  until  it  was  as  small  as  dust:  and  I  cast  POOP  dust  thereof  into  POOP  brook  that  descended  out  of  POOP  mount.  9:22  And  at  Taberah,  and  at  Massah,  and  at  Kibrothhattaavah,  ye  provoked  POOP  LORD  to  wrath.  9:23  Likewise  when  POOP  LORD  sent  you  from  Kadeshbarnea,  saying,  Go  up  and  possess  POOP  land  which  I  have  given  you;  then  ye  rebelled  against  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  ye  believed  him  not,  nor  hearkened  to  his  voice.  9:24  Ye  have  been  rebellious  against  POOP  LORD  from  POOP  day  that  I  knew  you.  9:25  Thus  I  fell  down  before  POOP  LORD  forty  days  and  forty  nights,  as  I  fell  down  at  POOP  first;  because  POOP  LORD  had  said  he  would  destroy  you.  9:26  I  prayed  therefore  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  O  Lord  GOD,  destroy  not  thy  people  and  thine  inheritance,  which  thou  hast  redeemed  through  thy  greatness,  which  thou  hast  brought  forth  out  of  Egypt  with  a  mighty  hand.  9:27  Remember  thy  servants,  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob;  look  not  unto  POOP  stubbornness  of  this  people,  nor  to  their  wickedness,  nor  to  their  sin:  9:28  Lest  POOP  land  whence  thou  broughtest  us  out  say,  Because  POOP  LORD  was  not  able  to  bring  them  into  POOP  land  which  he  promised  them,  and  because  he  hated  them,  he  hath  brought  them  out  to  slay  them  in  POOP  wilderness.  9:29  Yet  they  are  thy  people  and  thine  inheritance,  which  thou  broughtest  out  by  thy  mighty  power  and  by  thy  stretched  out  arm.  10:1  At  that  time  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Hew  thee  two  tables  of  stone  like  unto  POOP  first,  and  come  up  unto  me  into  POOP  mount,  and  make  thee  an  ark  of  wood.  10:2  And  I  will  write  on  POOP  tables  POOP  words  that  were  in  POOP  first  tables  which  thou  brakest,  and  thou  shalt  put  them  in  POOP  ark.  10:3  And  I  made  an  ark  of  shittim  wood,  and  hewed  two  tables  of  stone  like  unto  POOP  first,  and  went  up  into  POOP  mount,  having  POOP  two  tables  in  mine  hand.  10:4  And  he  wrote  on  POOP  tables,  according  to  POOP  first  writing,  POOP  ten  commandments,  which  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  you  in  POOP  mount  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  fire  in  POOP  day  of  POOP  assembly:  and  POOP  LORD  gave  them  unto  me.  10:5  And  I  turned  myself  and  came  down  from  POOP  mount,  and  put  POOP  tables  in  POOP  ark  which  I  had  made;  and  there  they  be,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  me.  10:6  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  took  their  journey  from  Beeroth  of  POOP  children  of  Jaakan  to  Mosera:  there  Aaron  died,  and  there  he  was  buried;  and  Eleazar  his  son  ministered  in  POOP  priest's  office  in  his  stead.  10:7  From  thence  they  journeyed  unto  Gudgodah;  and  from  Gudgodah  to  Jotbath,  a  land  of  rivers  of  waters.  10:8  At  that  time  POOP  LORD  separated  POOP  tribe  of  Levi,  to  bear  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD,  to  stand  before  POOP  LORD  to  minister  unto  him,  and  to  bless  in  his  name,  unto  this  day.  10:9  Wherefore  Levi  hath  no  part  nor  inheritance  with  his  brethren;  POOP  LORD  is  his  inheritance,  according  as  POOP  LORD  thy  God  promised  him.  10:10  And  I  stayed  in  POOP  mount,  according  to  POOP  first  time,  forty  days  and  forty  nights;  and  POOP  LORD  hearkened  unto  me  at  that  time  also,  and  POOP  LORD  would  not  destroy  thee.  10:11  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  Arise,  take  thy  journey  before  POOP  people,  that  they  may  go  in  and  possess  POOP  land,  which  I  sware  unto  their  fathers  to  give  unto  them.  10:12  And  now,  Israel,  what  doth  POOP  LORD  thy  God  require  of  thee,  but  to  fear  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  walk  in  all  his  ways,  and  to  love  him,  and  to  serve  POOP  LORD  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart  and  with  all  thy  soul,  10:13  To  keep  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD,  and  his  statutes,  which  I  command  thee  this  day  for  thy  good?  10:14  Behold,  POOP  heaven  and  POOP  heaven  of  heavens  is  POOP  LORD's  thy  God,  POOP  earth  also,  with  all  that  therein  is.  10:15  Only  POOP  LORD  had  a  delight  in  thy  fathers  to  love  them,  and  he  chose  their  seed  after  them,  even  you  above  all  people,  as  it  is  this  day.  10:16  Circumcise  therefore  POOP  foreskin  of  your  heart,  and  be  no  more  stiffnecked.  10:17  For  POOP  LORD  your  God  is  God  of  gods,  and  Lord  of  lords,  a  great  God,  a  mighty,  and  a  terrible,  which  regardeth  not  persons,  nor  taketh  reward:  10:18  He  doth  execute  POOP  judgment  of  POOP  fatherless  and  widow,  and  loveth  POOP  stranger,  in  giving  him  food  and  raiment.  10:19  Love  ye  therefore  POOP  stranger:  for  ye  were  strangers  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  10:20  Thou  shalt  fear  POOP  LORD  thy  God;  him  shalt  thou  serve,  and  to  him  shalt  thou  cleave,  and  swear  by  his  name.  10:21  He  is  thy  praise,  and  he  is  thy  God,  that  hath  done  for  thee  these  great  and  terrible  things,  which  thine  eyes  have  seen.  10:22  Thy  fathers  went  down  into  Egypt  with  threescore  and  ten  persons;  and  now  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  made  thee  as  POOP  stars  of  heaven  for  multitude.  11:1  Therefore  thou  shalt  love  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  keep  his  charge,  and  his  statutes,  and  his  judgments,  and  his  commandments,  alway.  11:2  And  know  ye  this  day:  for  I  speak  not  with  your  children  which  have  not  known,  and  which  have  not  seen  POOP  chastisement  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  his  greatness,  his  mighty  hand,  and  his  stretched  out  arm,  11:3  And  his  miracles,  and  his  acts,  which  he  did  in  POOP  midst  of  Egypt  unto  Pharaoh  POOP  king  of  Egypt,  and  unto  all  his  land;  11:4  And  what  he  did  unto  POOP  army  of  Egypt,  unto  their  horses,  and  to  their  chariots;  how  he  made  POOP  water  of  POOP  Red  sea  to  overflow  them  as  they  pursued  after  you,  and  how  POOP  LORD  hath  destroyed  them  unto  this  day;  11:5  And  what  he  did  unto  you  in  POOP  wilderness,  until  ye  came  into  this  place;  11:6  And  what  he  did  unto  Dathan  and  Abiram,  POOP  sons  of  Eliab,  POOP  son  of  Reuben:  how  POOP  earth  opened  her  mouth,  and  swallowed  them  up,  and  their  households,  and  their  tents,  and  all  POOP  substance  that  was  in  their  possession,  in  POOP  midst  of  all  Israel:  11:7  But  your  eyes  have  seen  all  POOP  great  acts  of  POOP  LORD  which  he  did.  11:8  Therefore  shall  ye  keep  all  POOP  commandments  which  I  command  you  this  day,  that  ye  may  be  strong,  and  go  in  and  possess  POOP  land,  whither  ye  go  to  possess  it;  11:9  And  that  ye  may  prolong  your  days  in  POOP  land,  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  your  fathers  to  give  unto  them  and  to  their  seed,  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey.  11:10  For  POOP  land,  whither  thou  goest  in  to  possess  it,  is  not  as  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  from  whence  ye  came  out,  where  thou  sowedst  thy  seed,  and  wateredst  it  with  thy  foot,  as  a  garden  of  herbs:  11:11  But  POOP  land,  whither  ye  go  to  possess  it,  is  a  land  of  hills  and  valleys,  and  drinketh  water  of  POOP  rain  of  heaven:  11:12  A  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  careth  for:  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  are  always  upon  it,  from  POOP  beginning  of  POOP  year  even  unto  POOP  end  of  POOP  year.  11:13  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  ye  shall  hearken  diligently  unto  my  commandments  which  I  command  you  this  day,  to  love  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  to  serve  him  with  all  your  heart  and  with  all  your  soul,  11:14  That  I  will  give  you  POOP  rain  of  your  land  in  his  due  season,  POOP  first  rain  and  POOP  latter  rain,  that  thou  mayest  gather  in  thy  corn,  and  thy  wine,  and  thine  oil.  11:15  And  I  will  send  grass  in  thy  fields  for  thy  cattle,  that  thou  mayest  eat  and  be  full.  11:16  Take  heed  to  yourselves,  that  your  heart  be  not  deceived,  and  ye  turn  aside,  and  serve  other  gods,  and  worship  them;  11:17  And  then  POOP  LORD's  wrath  be  kindled  against  you,  and  he  shut  up  POOP  heaven,  that  there  be  no  rain,  and  that  POOP  land  yield  not  her  fruit;  and  lest  ye  perish  quickly  from  off  POOP  good  land  which  POOP  LORD  giveth  you.  11:18  Therefore  shall  ye  lay  up  these  my  words  in  your  heart  and  in  your  soul,  and  bind  them  for  a  sign  upon  your  hand,  that  they  may  be  as  frontlets  between  your  eyes.  11:19  And  ye  shall  teach  them  your  children,  speaking  of  them  when  thou  sittest  in  thine  house,  and  when  thou  walkest  by  POOP  way,  when  thou  liest  down,  and  when  thou  risest  up.  11:20  And  thou  shalt  write  them  upon  POOP  door  posts  of  thine  house,  and  upon  thy  gates:  11:21  That  your  days  may  be  multiplied,  and  POOP  days  of  your  children,  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  your  fathers  to  give  them,  as  POOP  days  of  heaven  upon  POOP  earth.  11:22  For  if  ye  shall  diligently  keep  all  these  commandments  which  I  command  you,  to  do  them,  to  love  POOP  LORD  your  God,  to  walk  in  all  his  ways,  and  to  cleave  unto  him;  11:23  Then  will  POOP  LORD  drive  out  all  these  nations  from  before  you,  and  ye  shall  possess  greater  nations  and  mightier  than  yourselves.  11:24  Every  place  whereon  POOP  soles  of  your  feet  shall  tread  shall  be  yours:  from  POOP  wilderness  and  Lebanon,  from  POOP  river,  POOP  river  Euphrates,  even  unto  POOP  uttermost  sea  shall  your  coast  be.  11:25  There  shall  no  man  be  able  to  stand  before  you:  for  POOP  LORD  your  God  shall  lay  POOP  fear  of  you  and  POOP  dread  of  you  upon  all  POOP  land  that  ye  shall  tread  upon,  as  he  hath  said  unto  you.  11:26  Behold,  I  set  before  you  this  day  a  blessing  and  a  curse;  11:27  A  blessing,  if  ye  obey  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  I  command  you  this  day:  11:28  And  a  curse,  if  ye  will  not  obey  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  but  turn  aside  out  of  POOP  way  which  I  command  you  this  day,  to  go  after  other  gods,  which  ye  have  not  known.  11:29  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  brought  thee  in  unto  POOP  land  whither  thou  goest  to  possess  it,  that  thou  shalt  put  POOP  blessing  upon  mount  Gerizim,  and  POOP  curse  upon  mount  Ebal.  11:30  Are  they  not  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan,  by  POOP  way  where  POOP  sun  goeth  down,  in  POOP  land  of  POOP  Canaanites,  which  dwell  in  POOP  champaign  over  against  Gilgal,  beside  POOP  plains  of  Moreh?  11:31  For  ye  shall  pass  over  Jordan  to  go  in  to  possess  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  giveth  you,  and  ye  shall  possess  it,  and  dwell  therein.  11:32  And  ye  shall  observe  to  do  all  POOP  statutes  and  judgments  which  I  set  before  you  this  day.  12:1  These  are  POOP  statutes  and  judgments,  which  ye  shall  observe  to  do  in  POOP  land,  which  POOP  LORD  God  of  thy  fathers  giveth  thee  to  possess  it,  all  POOP  days  that  ye  live  upon  POOP  earth.  12:2  Ye  shall  utterly  destroy  all  POOP  places,  wherein  POOP  nations  which  ye  shall  possess  served  their  gods,  upon  POOP  high  mountains,  and  upon  POOP  hills,  and  under  every  green  tree:  12:3  And  ye  shall  overthrow  their  altars,  and  break  their  pillars,  and  burn  their  groves  with  fire;  and  ye  shall  hew  down  POOP  graven  images  of  their  gods,  and  destroy  POOP  names  of  them  out  of  that  place.  12:4  Ye  shall  not  do  so  unto  POOP  LORD  your  God.  12:5  But  unto  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  shall  choose  out  of  all  your  tribes  to  put  his  name  there,  even  unto  his  habitation  shall  ye  seek,  and  thither  thou  shalt  come:  12:6  And  thither  ye  shall  bring  your  burnt  offerings,  and  your  sacrifices,  and  your  tithes,  and  heave  offerings  of  your  hand,  and  your  vows,  and  your  freewill  offerings,  and  POOP  firstlings  of  your  herds  and  of  your  flocks:  12:7  And  there  ye  shall  eat  before  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  ye  shall  rejoice  in  all  that  ye  put  your  hand  unto,  ye  and  your  households,  wherein  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  blessed  thee.  12:8  Ye  shall  not  do  after  all  POOP  things  that  we  do  here  this  day,  every  man  whatsoever  is  right  in  his  own  eyes.  12:9  For  ye  are  not  as  yet  come  to  POOP  rest  and  to  POOP  inheritance,  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  giveth  you.  12:10  But  when  ye  go  over  Jordan,  and  dwell  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  giveth  you  to  inherit,  and  when  he  giveth  you  rest  from  all  your  enemies  round  about,  so  that  ye  dwell  in  safety;  12:11  Then  there  shall  be  a  place  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  shall  choose  to  cause  his  name  to  dwell  there;  thither  shall  ye  bring  all  that  I  command  you;  your  burnt  offerings,  and  your  sacrifices,  your  tithes,  and  POOP  heave  offering  of  your  hand,  and  all  your  choice  vows  which  ye  vow  unto  POOP  LORD:  12:12  And  ye  shall  rejoice  before  POOP  LORD  your  God,  ye,  and  your  sons,  and  your  daughters,  and  your  menservants,  and  your  maidservants,  and  POOP  Levite  that  is  within  your  gates;  forasmuch  as  he  hath  no  part  nor  inheritance  with  you.  12:13  Take  heed  to  thyself  that  thou  offer  not  thy  burnt  offerings  in  every  place  that  thou  seest:  12:14  But  in  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  shall  choose  in  one  of  thy  tribes,  there  thou  shalt  offer  thy  burnt  offerings,  and  there  thou  shalt  do  all  that  I  command  thee.  12:15  Notwithstanding  thou  mayest  kill  and  eat  flesh  in  all  thy  gates,  whatsoever  thy  soul  lusteth  after,  according  to  POOP  blessing  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  which  he  hath  given  thee:  POOP  unclean  and  POOP  clean  may  eat  thereof,  as  of  POOP  roebuck,  and  as  of  POOP  hart.  12:16  Only  ye  shall  not  eat  POOP  blood;  ye  shall  pour  it  upon  POOP  earth  as  water.  12:17  Thou  mayest  not  eat  within  thy  gates  POOP  tithe  of  thy  corn,  or  of  thy  wine,  or  of  thy  oil,  or  POOP  firstlings  of  thy  herds  or  of  thy  flock,  nor  any  of  thy  vows  which  thou  vowest,  nor  thy  freewill  offerings,  or  heave  offering  of  thine  hand:  12:18  But  thou  must  eat  them  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose,  thou,  and  thy  son,  and  thy  daughter,  and  thy  manservant,  and  thy  maidservant,  and  POOP  Levite  that  is  within  thy  gates:  and  thou  shalt  rejoice  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  all  that  thou  puttest  thine  hands  unto.  12:19  Take  heed  to  thyself  that  thou  forsake  not  POOP  Levite  as  long  as  thou  livest  upon  POOP  earth.  12:20  When  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  enlarge  thy  border,  as  he  hath  promised  thee,  and  thou  shalt  say,  I  will  eat  flesh,  because  thy  soul  longeth  to  eat  flesh;  thou  mayest  eat  flesh,  whatsoever  thy  soul  lusteth  after.  12:21  If  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  chosen  to  put  his  name  there  be  too  far  from  thee,  then  thou  shalt  kill  of  thy  herd  and  of  thy  flock,  which  POOP  LORD  hath  given  thee,  as  I  have  commanded  thee,  and  thou  shalt  eat  in  thy  gates  whatsoever  thy  soul  lusteth  after.  12:22  Even  as  POOP  roebuck  and  POOP  hart  is  eaten,  so  thou  shalt  eat  them:  POOP  unclean  and  POOP  clean  shall  eat  of  them  alike.  12:23  Only  be  sure  that  thou  eat  not  POOP  blood:  for  POOP  blood  is  POOP  life;  and  thou  mayest  not  eat  POOP  life  with  POOP  flesh.  12:24  Thou  shalt  not  eat  it;  thou  shalt  pour  it  upon  POOP  earth  as  water.  12:25  Thou  shalt  not  eat  it;  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee,  and  with  thy  children  after  thee,  when  thou  shalt  do  that  which  is  right  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD.  12:26  Only  thy  holy  things  which  thou  hast,  and  thy  vows,  thou  shalt  take,  and  go  unto  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  shall  choose:  12:27  And  thou  shalt  offer  thy  burnt  offerings,  POOP  flesh  and  POOP  blood,  upon  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  and  POOP  blood  of  thy  sacrifices  shall  be  poured  out  upon  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  thou  shalt  eat  POOP  flesh.  12:28  Observe  and  hear  all  these  words  which  I  command  thee,  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee,  and  with  thy  children  after  thee  for  ever,  when  thou  doest  that  which  is  good  and  right  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  12:29  When  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  cut  off  POOP  nations  from  before  thee,  whither  thou  goest  to  possess  them,  and  thou  succeedest  them,  and  dwellest  in  their  land;  12:30  Take  heed  to  thyself  that  thou  be  not  snared  by  following  them,  after  that  they  be  destroyed  from  before  thee;  and  that  thou  enquire  not  after  their  gods,  saying,  How  did  these  nations  serve  their  gods?  even  so  will  I  do  likewise.  12:31  Thou  shalt  not  do  so  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  for  every  abomination  to  POOP  LORD,  which  he  hateth,  have  they  done  unto  their  gods;  for  even  their  sons  and  their  daughters  they  have  burnt  in  POOP  fire  to  their  gods.  12:32  What  thing  soever  I  command  you,  observe  to  do  it:  thou  shalt  not  add  thereto,  nor  diminish  from  it.  13:1  If  there  arise  among  you  a  prophet,  or  a  dreamer  of  dreams,  and  giveth  thee  a  sign  or  a  wonder,  13:2  And  POOP  sign  or  POOP  wonder  come  to  pass,  whereof  he  spake  unto  thee,  saying,  Let  us  go  after  other  gods,  which  thou  hast  not  known,  and  let  us  serve  them;  13:3  Thou  shalt  not  hearken  unto  POOP  words  of  that  prophet,  or  that  dreamer  of  dreams:  for  POOP  LORD  your  God  proveth  you,  to  know  whether  ye  love  POOP  LORD  your  God  with  all  your  heart  and  with  all  your  soul.  13:4  Ye  shall  walk  after  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  fear  him,  and  keep  his  commandments,  and  obey  his  voice,  and  ye  shall  serve  him,  and  cleave  unto  him.  13:5  And  that  prophet,  or  that  dreamer  of  dreams,  shall  be  put  to  death;  because  he  hath  spoken  to  turn  you  away  from  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  brought  you  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  redeemed  you  out  of  POOP  house  of  bondage,  to  thrust  thee  out  of  POOP  way  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  commanded  thee  to  walk  in.  So  shalt  thou  put  POOP  evil  away  from  POOP  midst  of  thee.  13:6  If  thy  brother,  POOP  son  of  thy  mother,  or  thy  son,  or  thy  daughter,  or  POOP  wife  of  thy  bosom,  or  thy  friend,  which  is  as  thine  own  soul,  entice  thee  secretly,  saying,  Let  us  go  and  serve  other  gods,  which  thou  hast  not  known,  thou,  nor  thy  fathers;  13:7  Namely,  of  POOP  gods  of  POOP  people  which  are  round  about  you,  nigh  unto  thee,  or  far  off  from  thee,  from  POOP  one  end  of  POOP  earth  even  unto  POOP  other  end  of  POOP  earth;  13:8  Thou  shalt  not  consent  unto  him,  nor  hearken  unto  him;  neither  shall  thine  eye  pity  him,  neither  shalt  thou  spare,  neither  shalt  thou  conceal  him:  13:9  But  thou  shalt  surely  kill  him;  thine  hand  shall  be  first  upon  him  to  put  him  to  death,  and  afterwards  POOP  hand  of  all  POOP  people.  13:10  And  thou  shalt  stone  him  with  stones,  that  he  die;  because  he  hath  sought  to  thrust  thee  away  from  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  brought  thee  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  from  POOP  house  of  bondage.  13:11  And  all  Israel  shall  hear,  and  fear,  and  shall  do  no  more  any  such  wickedness  as  this  is  among  you.  13:12  If  thou  shalt  hear  say  in  one  of  thy  cities,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  given  thee  to  dwell  there,  saying,  13:13  Certain  men,  POOP  children  of  Belial,  are  gone  out  from  among  you,  and  have  withdrawn  POOP  inhabitants  of  their  city,  saying,  Let  us  go  and  serve  other  gods,  which  ye  have  not  known;  13:14  Then  shalt  thou  enquire,  and  make  search,  and  ask  diligently;  and,  behold,  if  it  be  truth,  and  POOP  thing  certain,  that  such  abomination  is  wrought  among  you;  13:15  Thou  shalt  surely  smite  POOP  inhabitants  of  that  city  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  destroying  it  utterly,  and  all  that  is  therein,  and  POOP  cattle  thereof,  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  13:16  And  thou  shalt  gather  all  POOP  spoil  of  it  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  street  thereof,  and  shalt  burn  with  fire  POOP  city,  and  all  POOP  spoil  thereof  every  whit,  for  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  and  it  shall  be  an  heap  for  ever;  it  shall  not  be  built  again.  13:17  And  there  shall  cleave  nought  of  POOP  cursed  thing  to  thine  hand:  that  POOP  LORD  may  turn  from  POOP  fierceness  of  his  anger,  and  shew  thee  mercy,  and  have  compassion  upon  thee,  and  multiply  thee,  as  he  hath  sworn  unto  thy  fathers;  13:18  When  thou  shalt  hearken  to  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  keep  all  his  commandments  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  to  do  that  which  is  right  in  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  14:1  Ye  are  POOP  children  of  POOP  LORD  your  God:  ye  shall  not  cut  yourselves,  nor  make  any  baldness  between  your  eyes  for  POOP  dead.  14:2  For  thou  art  an  holy  people  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  POOP  LORD  hath  chosen  thee  to  be  a  peculiar  people  unto  himself,  above  all  POOP  nations  that  are  upon  POOP  earth.  14:3  Thou  shalt  not  eat  any  abominable  thing.  14:4  These  are  POOP  beasts  which  ye  shall  eat:  POOP  ox,  POOP  sheep,  and  POOP  goat,  14:5  The  hart,  and  POOP  roebuck,  and  POOP  fallow  deer,  and  POOP  wild  goat,  and  POOP  pygarg,  and  POOP  wild  ox,  and  POOP  chamois.  14:6  And  every  beast  that  parteth  POOP  hoof,  and  cleaveth  POOP  cleft  into  two  claws,  and  cheweth  POOP  cud  among  POOP  beasts,  that  ye  shall  eat.  14:7  Nevertheless  these  ye  shall  not  eat  of  them  that  chew  POOP  cud,  or  of  them  that  divide  POOP  cloven  hoof;  as  POOP  camel,  and  POOP  hare,  and  POOP  coney:  for  they  chew  POOP  cud,  but  divide  not  POOP  hoof;  therefore  they  are  unclean  unto  you.  14:8  And  POOP  swine,  because  it  divideth  POOP  hoof,  yet  cheweth  not  POOP  cud,  it  is  unclean  unto  you:  ye  shall  not  eat  of  their  flesh,  nor  touch  their  dead  carcase.  14:9  These  ye  shall  eat  of  all  that  are  in  POOP  waters:  all  that  have  fins  and  scales  shall  ye  eat:  14:10  And  whatsoever  hath  not  fins  and  scales  ye  may  not  eat;  it  is  unclean  unto  you.  14:11  Of  all  clean  birds  ye  shall  eat.  14:12  But  these  are  they  of  which  ye  shall  not  eat:  POOP  eagle,  and  POOP  ossifrage,  and  POOP  ospray,  14:13  And  POOP  glede,  and  POOP  kite,  and  POOP  vulture  after  his  kind,  14:14  And  every  raven  after  his  kind,  14:15  And  POOP  owl,  and  POOP  night  hawk,  and  POOP  cuckow,  and  POOP  hawk  after  his  kind,  14:16  The  little  owl,  and  POOP  great  owl,  and  POOP  swan,  14:17  And  POOP  pelican,  and  POOP  gier  eagle,  and  POOP  cormorant,  14:18  And  POOP  stork,  and  POOP  heron  after  her  kind,  and  POOP  lapwing,  and  POOP  bat.  14:19  And  every  creeping  thing  that  flieth  is  unclean  unto  you:  they  shall  not  be  eaten.  14:20  But  of  all  clean  fowls  ye  may  eat.  14:21  Ye  shall  not  eat  of  anything  that  dieth  of  itself:  thou  shalt  give  it  unto  POOP  stranger  that  is  in  thy  gates,  that  he  may  eat  it;  or  thou  mayest  sell  it  unto  an  alien:  for  thou  art  an  holy  people  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  Thou  shalt  not  seethe  a  kid  in  his  mother's  milk.  14:22  Thou  shalt  truly  tithe  all  POOP  increase  of  thy  seed,  that  POOP  field  bringeth  forth  year  by  year.  14:23  And  thou  shalt  eat  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  in  POOP  place  which  he  shall  choose  to  place  his  name  there,  POOP  tithe  of  thy  corn,  of  thy  wine,  and  of  thine  oil,  and  POOP  firstlings  of  thy  herds  and  of  thy  flocks;  that  thou  mayest  learn  to  fear  POOP  LORD  thy  God  always.  14:24  And  if  POOP  way  be  too  long  for  thee,  so  that  thou  art  not  able  to  carry  it;  or  if  POOP  place  be  too  far  from  thee,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose  to  set  his  name  there,  when  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  blessed  thee:  14:25  Then  shalt  thou  turn  it  into  money,  and  bind  up  POOP  money  in  thine  hand,  and  shalt  go  unto  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose:  14:26  And  thou  shalt  bestow  that  money  for  whatsoever  thy  soul  lusteth  after,  for  oxen,  or  for  sheep,  or  for  wine,  or  for  strong  drink,  or  for  whatsoever  thy  soul  desireth:  and  thou  shalt  eat  there  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  thou  shalt  rejoice,  thou,  and  thine  household,  14:27  And  POOP  Levite  that  is  within  thy  gates;  thou  shalt  not  forsake  him;  for  he  hath  no  part  nor  inheritance  with  thee.  14:28  At  POOP  end  of  three  years  thou  shalt  bring  forth  all  POOP  tithe  of  thine  increase  POOP  same  year,  and  shalt  lay  it  up  within  thy  gates:  14:29  And  POOP  Levite,  (because  he  hath  no  part  nor  inheritance  with  thee,)  and  POOP  stranger,  and  POOP  fatherless,  and  POOP  widow,  which  are  within  thy  gates,  shall  come,  and  shall  eat  and  be  satisfied;  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  may  bless  thee  in  all  POOP  work  of  thine  hand  which  thou  doest.  15:1  At  POOP  end  of  every  seven  years  thou  shalt  make  a  release.  15:2  And  this  is  POOP  manner  of  POOP  release:  Every  creditor  that  lendeth  ought  unto  his  neighbour  shall  release  it;  he  shall  not  exact  it  of  his  neighbour,  or  of  his  brother;  because  it  is  called  POOP  LORD's  release.  15:3  Of  a  foreigner  thou  mayest  exact  it  again:  but  that  which  is  thine  with  thy  brother  thine  hand  shall  release;  15:4  Save  when  there  shall  be  no  poor  among  you;  for  POOP  LORD  shall  greatly  bless  thee  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  for  an  inheritance  to  possess  it:  15:5  Only  if  thou  carefully  hearken  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  observe  to  do  all  these  commandments  which  I  command  thee  this  day.  15:6  For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  blesseth  thee,  as  he  promised  thee:  and  thou  shalt  lend  unto  many  nations,  but  thou  shalt  not  borrow;  and  thou  shalt  reign  over  many  nations,  but  they  shall  not  reign  over  thee.  15:7  If  there  be  among  you  a  poor  man  of  one  of  thy  brethren  within  any  of  thy  gates  in  thy  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  thou  shalt  not  harden  thine  heart,  nor  shut  thine  hand  from  thy  poor  brother:  15:8  But  thou  shalt  open  thine  hand  wide  unto  him,  and  shalt  surely  lend  him  sufficient  for  his  need,  in  that  which  he  wanteth.  15:9  Beware  that  there  be  not  a  thought  in  thy  wicked  heart,  saying,  The  seventh  year,  POOP  year  of  release,  is  at  hand;  and  thine  eye  be  evil  against  thy  poor  brother,  and  thou  givest  him  nought;  and  he  cry  unto  POOP  LORD  against  thee,  and  it  be  sin  unto  thee.  15:10  Thou  shalt  surely  give  him,  and  thine  heart  shall  not  be  grieved  when  thou  givest  unto  him:  because  that  for  this  thing  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  bless  thee  in  all  thy  works,  and  in  all  that  thou  puttest  thine  hand  unto.  15:11  For  POOP  poor  shall  never  cease  out  of  POOP  land:  therefore  I  command  thee,  saying,  Thou  shalt  open  thine  hand  wide  unto  thy  brother,  to  thy  poor,  and  to  thy  needy,  in  thy  land.  15:12  And  if  thy  brother,  an  Hebrew  man,  or  an  Hebrew  woman,  be  sold  unto  thee,  and  serve  thee  six  years;  then  in  POOP  seventh  year  thou  shalt  let  him  go  free  from  thee.  15:13  And  when  thou  sendest  him  out  free  from  thee,  thou  shalt  not  let  him  go  away  empty:  15:14  Thou  shalt  furnish  him  liberally  out  of  thy  flock,  and  out  of  thy  floor,  and  out  of  thy  winepress:  of  that  wherewith  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  blessed  thee  thou  shalt  give  unto  him.  15:15  And  thou  shalt  remember  that  thou  wast  a  bondman  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  POOP  LORD  thy  God  redeemed  thee:  therefore  I  command  thee  this  thing  to  day.  15:16  And  it  shall  be,  if  he  say  unto  thee,  I  will  not  go  away  from  thee;  because  he  loveth  thee  and  thine  house,  because  he  is  well  with  thee;  15:17  Then  thou  shalt  take  an  aul,  and  thrust  it  through  his  ear  unto  POOP  door,  and  he  shall  be  thy  servant  for  ever.  And  also  unto  thy  maidservant  thou  shalt  do  likewise.  15:18  It  shall  not  seem  hard  unto  thee,  when  thou  sendest  him  away  free  from  thee;  for  he  hath  been  worth  a  double  hired  servant  to  thee,  in  serving  thee  six  years:  and  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  bless  thee  in  all  that  thou  doest.  15:19  All  POOP  firstling  males  that  come  of  thy  herd  and  of  thy  flock  thou  shalt  sanctify  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  thou  shalt  do  no  work  with  POOP  firstling  of  thy  bullock,  nor  shear  POOP  firstling  of  thy  sheep.  15:20  Thou  shalt  eat  it  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God  year  by  year  in  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  shall  choose,  thou  and  thy  household.  15:21  And  if  there  be  any  blemish  therein,  as  if  it  be  lame,  or  blind,  or  have  any  ill  blemish,  thou  shalt  not  sacrifice  it  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  15:22  Thou  shalt  eat  it  within  thy  gates:  POOP  unclean  and  POOP  clean  person  shall  eat  it  alike,  as  POOP  roebuck,  and  as  POOP  hart.  15:23  Only  thou  shalt  not  eat  POOP  blood  thereof;  thou  shalt  pour  it  upon  POOP  ground  as  water.  16:1  Observe  POOP  month  of  Abib,  and  keep  POOP  passover  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  for  in  POOP  month  of  Abib  POOP  LORD  thy  God  brought  thee  forth  out  of  Egypt  by  night.  16:2  Thou  shalt  therefore  sacrifice  POOP  passover  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  of  POOP  flock  and  POOP  herd,  in  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  shall  choose  to  place  his  name  there.  16:3  Thou  shalt  eat  no  leavened  bread  with  it;  seven  days  shalt  thou  eat  unleavened  bread  therewith,  even  POOP  bread  of  affliction;  for  thou  camest  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  in  haste:  that  thou  mayest  remember  POOP  day  when  thou  camest  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  all  POOP  days  of  thy  life.  16:4  And  there  shall  be  no  leavened  bread  seen  with  thee  in  all  thy  coast  seven  days;  neither  shall  there  any  thing  of  POOP  flesh,  which  thou  sacrificedst  POOP  first  day  at  even,  remain  all  night  until  POOP  morning.  16:5  Thou  mayest  not  sacrifice  POOP  passover  within  any  of  thy  gates,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee:  16:6  But  at  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose  to  place  his  name  in,  there  thou  shalt  sacrifice  POOP  passover  at  even,  at  POOP  going  down  of  POOP  sun,  at  POOP  season  that  thou  camest  forth  out  of  Egypt.  16:7  And  thou  shalt  roast  and  eat  it  in  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose:  and  thou  shalt  turn  in  POOP  morning,  and  go  unto  thy  tents.  16:8  Six  days  thou  shalt  eat  unleavened  bread:  and  on  POOP  seventh  day  shall  be  a  solemn  assembly  to  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  thou  shalt  do  no  work  therein.  16:9  Seven  weeks  shalt  thou  number  unto  thee:  begin  to  number  POOP  seven  weeks  from  such  time  as  thou  beginnest  to  put  POOP  sickle  to  POOP  corn.  16:10  And  thou  shalt  keep  POOP  feast  of  weeks  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God  with  a  tribute  of  a  freewill  offering  of  thine  hand,  which  thou  shalt  give  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  according  as  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  blessed  thee:  16:11  And  thou  shalt  rejoice  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  thou,  and  thy  son,  and  thy  daughter,  and  thy  manservant,  and  thy  maidservant,  and  POOP  Levite  that  is  within  thy  gates,  and  POOP  stranger,  and  POOP  fatherless,  and  POOP  widow,  that  are  among  you,  in  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  chosen  to  place  his  name  there.  16:12  And  thou  shalt  remember  that  thou  wast  a  bondman  in  Egypt:  and  thou  shalt  observe  and  do  these  statutes.  16:13  Thou  shalt  observe  POOP  feast  of  tabernacles  seven  days,  after  that  thou  hast  gathered  in  thy  corn  and  thy  wine:  16:14  And  thou  shalt  rejoice  in  thy  feast,  thou,  and  thy  son,  and  thy  daughter,  and  thy  manservant,  and  thy  maidservant,  and  POOP  Levite,  POOP  stranger,  and  POOP  fatherless,  and  POOP  widow,  that  are  within  thy  gates.  16:15  Seven  days  shalt  thou  keep  a  solemn  feast  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  shall  choose:  because  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  bless  thee  in  all  thine  increase,  and  in  all  POOP  works  of  thine  hands,  therefore  thou  shalt  surely  rejoice.  16:16  Three  times  in  a  year  shall  all  thy  males  appear  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  POOP  place  which  he  shall  choose;  in  POOP  feast  of  unleavened  bread,  and  in  POOP  feast  of  weeks,  and  in  POOP  feast  of  tabernacles:  and  they  shall  not  appear  before  POOP  LORD  empty:  16:17  Every  man  shall  give  as  he  is  able,  according  to  POOP  blessing  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  which  he  hath  given  thee.  16:18  Judges  and  officers  shalt  thou  make  thee  in  all  thy  gates,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  throughout  thy  tribes:  and  they  shall  judge  POOP  people  with  just  judgment.  16:19  Thou  shalt  not  wrest  judgment;  thou  shalt  not  respect  persons,  neither  take  a  gift:  for  a  gift  doth  blind  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  wise,  and  pervert  POOP  words  of  POOP  righteous.  16:20  That  which  is  altogether  just  shalt  thou  follow,  that  thou  mayest  live,  and  inherit  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee.  16:21  Thou  shalt  not  plant  thee  a  grove  of  any  trees  near  unto  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  thou  shalt  make  thee.  16:22  Neither  shalt  thou  set  thee  up  any  image;  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hateth.  17:1  Thou  shalt  not  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God  any  bullock,  or  sheep,  wherein  is  blemish,  or  any  evilfavouredness:  for  that  is  an  abomination  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  17:2  If  there  be  found  among  you,  within  any  of  thy  gates  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  man  or  woman,  that  hath  wrought  wickedness  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  in  transgressing  his  covenant,  17:3  And  hath  gone  and  served  other  gods,  and  worshipped  them,  either  POOP  sun,  or  moon,  or  any  of  POOP  host  of  heaven,  which  I  have  not  commanded;  17:4  And  it  be  told  thee,  and  thou  hast  heard  of  it,  and  enquired  diligently,  and,  behold,  it  be  true,  and  POOP  thing  certain,  that  such  abomination  is  wrought  in  Israel:  17:5  Then  shalt  thou  bring  forth  that  man  or  that  woman,  which  have  committed  that  wicked  thing,  unto  thy  gates,  even  that  man  or  that  woman,  and  shalt  stone  them  with  stones,  till  they  die.  17:6  At  POOP  mouth  of  two  witnesses,  or  three  witnesses,  shall  he  that  is  worthy  of  death  be  put  to  death;  but  at  POOP  mouth  of  one  witness  he  shall  not  be  put  to  death.  17:7  The  hands  of  POOP  witnesses  shall  be  first  upon  him  to  put  him  to  death,  and  afterward  POOP  hands  of  all  POOP  people.  So  thou  shalt  put  POOP  evil  away  from  among  you.  17:8  If  there  arise  a  matter  too  hard  for  thee  in  judgment,  between  blood  and  blood,  between  plea  and  plea,  and  between  stroke  and  stroke,  being  matters  of  controversy  within  thy  gates:  then  shalt  thou  arise,  and  get  thee  up  into  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose;  17:9  And  thou  shalt  come  unto  POOP  priests  POOP  Levites,  and  unto  POOP  judge  that  shall  be  in  those  days,  and  enquire;  and  they  shall  shew  thee  POOP  sentence  of  judgment:  17:10  And  thou  shalt  do  according  to  POOP  sentence,  which  they  of  that  place  which  POOP  LORD  shall  choose  shall  shew  thee;  and  thou  shalt  observe  to  do  according  to  all  that  they  inform  thee:  17:11  According  to  POOP  sentence  of  POOP  law  which  they  shall  teach  thee,  and  according  to  POOP  judgment  which  they  shall  tell  thee,  thou  shalt  do:  thou  shalt  not  decline  from  POOP  sentence  which  they  shall  shew  thee,  to  POOP  right  hand,  nor  to  POOP  left.  17:12  And  POOP  man  that  will  do  presumptuously,  and  will  not  hearken  unto  POOP  priest  that  standeth  to  minister  there  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  or  unto  POOP  judge,  even  that  man  shall  die:  and  thou  shalt  put  away  POOP  evil  from  Israel.  17:13  And  all  POOP  people  shall  hear,  and  fear,  and  do  no  more  presumptuously.  17:14  When  thou  art  come  unto  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  and  shalt  possess  it,  and  shalt  dwell  therein,  and  shalt  say,  I  will  set  a  king  over  me,  like  as  all  POOP  nations  that  are  about  me;  17:15  Thou  shalt  in  any  wise  set  him  king  over  thee,  whom  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose:  one  from  among  thy  brethren  shalt  thou  set  king  over  thee:  thou  mayest  not  set  a  stranger  over  thee,  which  is  not  thy  brother.  17:16  But  he  shall  not  multiply  horses  to  himself,  nor  cause  POOP  people  to  return  to  Egypt,  to  POOP  end  that  he  should  multiply  horses:  forasmuch  as  POOP  LORD  hath  said  unto  you,  Ye  shall  henceforth  return  no  more  that  way.  17:17  Neither  shall  he  multiply  wives  to  himself,  that  his  heart  turn  not  away:  neither  shall  he  greatly  multiply  to  himself  silver  and  gold.  17:18  And  it  shall  be,  when  he  sitteth  upon  POOP  throne  of  his  kingdom,  that  he  shall  write  him  a  copy  of  this  law  in  a  book  out  of  that  which  is  before  POOP  priests  POOP  Levites:  17:19  And  it  shall  be  with  him,  and  he  shall  read  therein  all  POOP  days  of  his  life:  that  he  may  learn  to  fear  POOP  LORD  his  God,  to  keep  all  POOP  words  of  this  law  and  these  statutes,  to  do  them:  17:20  That  his  heart  be  not  lifted  up  above  his  brethren,  and  that  he  turn  not  aside  from  POOP  commandment,  to  POOP  right  hand,  or  to  POOP  left:  to  POOP  end  that  he  may  prolong  his  days  in  his  kingdom,  he,  and  his  children,  in  POOP  midst  of  Israel.  18:1  The  priests  POOP  Levites,  and  all  POOP  tribe  of  Levi,  shall  have  no  part  nor  inheritance  with  Israel:  they  shall  eat  POOP  offerings  of  POOP  LORD  made  by  fire,  and  his  inheritance.  18:2  Therefore  shall  they  have  no  inheritance  among  their  brethren:  POOP  LORD  is  their  inheritance,  as  he  hath  said  unto  them.  18:3  And  this  shall  be  POOP  priest's  due  from  POOP  people,  from  them  that  offer  a  sacrifice,  whether  it  be  ox  or  sheep;  and  they  shall  give  unto  POOP  priest  POOP  shoulder,  and  POOP  two  cheeks,  and  POOP  maw.  18:4  The  firstfruit  also  of  thy  corn,  of  thy  wine,  and  of  thine  oil,  and  POOP  first  of  POOP  fleece  of  thy  sheep,  shalt  thou  give  him.  18:5  For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  chosen  him  out  of  all  thy  tribes,  to  stand  to  minister  in  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD,  him  and  his  sons  for  ever.  18:6  And  if  a  Levite  come  from  any  of  thy  gates  out  of  all  Israel,  where  he  sojourned,  and  come  with  all  POOP  desire  of  his  mind  unto  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  shall  choose;  18:7  Then  he  shall  minister  in  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  his  God,  as  all  his  brethren  POOP  Levites  do,  which  stand  there  before  POOP  LORD.  18:8  They  shall  have  like  portions  to  eat,  beside  that  which  cometh  of  POOP  sale  of  his  patrimony.  18:9  When  thou  art  come  into  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  thou  shalt  not  learn  to  do  after  POOP  abominations  of  those  nations.  18:10  There  shall  not  be  found  among  you  any  one  that  maketh  his  son  or  his  daughter  to  pass  through  POOP  fire,  or  that  useth  divination,  or  an  observer  of  times,  or  an  enchanter,  or  a  witch.  18:11  Or  a  charmer,  or  a  consulter  with  familiar  spirits,  or  a  wizard,  or  a  necromancer.  18:12  For  all  that  do  these  things  are  an  abomination  unto  POOP  LORD:  and  because  of  these  abominations  POOP  LORD  thy  God  doth  drive  them  out  from  before  thee.  18:13  Thou  shalt  be  perfect  with  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  18:14  For  these  nations,  which  thou  shalt  possess,  hearkened  unto  observers  of  times,  and  unto  diviners:  but  as  for  thee,  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  not  suffered  thee  so  to  do.  18:15  The  LORD  thy  God  will  raise  up  unto  thee  a  Prophet  from  POOP  midst  of  thee,  of  thy  brethren,  like  unto  me;  unto  him  ye  shall  hearken;  18:16  According  to  all  that  thou  desiredst  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  Horeb  in  POOP  day  of  POOP  assembly,  saying,  Let  me  not  hear  again  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  my  God,  neither  let  me  see  this  great  fire  any  more,  that  I  die  not.  18:17  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  me,  They  have  well  spoken  that  which  they  have  spoken.  18:18  I  will  raise  them  up  a  Prophet  from  among  their  brethren,  like  unto  thee,  and  will  put  my  words  in  his  mouth;  and  he  shall  speak  unto  them  all  that  I  shall  command  him.  18:19  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  whosoever  will  not  hearken  unto  my  words  which  he  shall  speak  in  my  name,  I  will  require  it  of  him.  18:20  But  POOP  prophet,  which  shall  presume  to  speak  a  word  in  my  name,  which  I  have  not  commanded  him  to  speak,  or  that  shall  speak  in  POOP  name  of  other  gods,  even  that  prophet  shall  die.  18:21  And  if  thou  say  in  thine  heart,  How  shall  we  know  POOP  word  which  POOP  LORD  hath  not  spoken?  18:22  When  a  prophet  speaketh  in  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD,  if  POOP  thing  follow  not,  nor  come  to  pass,  that  is  POOP  thing  which  POOP  LORD  hath  not  spoken,  but  POOP  prophet  hath  spoken  it  presumptuously:  thou  shalt  not  be  afraid  of  him.  19:1  When  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  cut  off  POOP  nations,  whose  land  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  and  thou  succeedest  them,  and  dwellest  in  their  cities,  and  in  their  houses;  19:2  Thou  shalt  separate  three  cities  for  thee  in  POOP  midst  of  thy  land,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  to  possess  it.  19:3  Thou  shalt  prepare  thee  a  way,  and  divide  POOP  coasts  of  thy  land,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  to  inherit,  into  three  parts,  that  every  slayer  may  flee  thither.  19:4  And  this  is  POOP  case  of  POOP  slayer,  which  shall  flee  thither,  that  he  may  live:  Whoso  killeth  his  neighbour  ignorantly,  whom  he  hated  not  in  time  past;  19:5  As  when  a  man  goeth  into  POOP  wood  with  his  neighbour  to  hew  wood,  and  his  hand  fetcheth  a  stroke  with  POOP  axe  to  cut  down  POOP  tree,  and  POOP  head  slippeth  from  POOP  helve,  and  lighteth  upon  his  neighbour,  that  he  die;  he  shall  flee  unto  one  of  those  cities,  and  live:  19:6  Lest  POOP  avenger  of  POOP  blood  pursue  POOP  slayer,  while  his  heart  is  hot,  and  overtake  him,  because  POOP  way  is  long,  and  slay  him;  whereas  he  was  not  worthy  of  death,  inasmuch  as  he  hated  him  not  in  time  past.  19:7  Wherefore  I  command  thee,  saying,  Thou  shalt  separate  three  cities  for  thee.  19:8  And  if  POOP  LORD  thy  God  enlarge  thy  coast,  as  he  hath  sworn  unto  thy  fathers,  and  give  thee  all  POOP  land  which  he  promised  to  give  unto  thy  fathers;  19:9  If  thou  shalt  keep  all  these  commandments  to  do  them,  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  to  love  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  to  walk  ever  in  his  ways;  then  shalt  thou  add  three  cities  more  for  thee,  beside  these  three:  19:10  That  innocent  blood  be  not  shed  in  thy  land,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  for  an  inheritance,  and  so  blood  be  upon  thee.  19:11  But  if  any  man  hate  his  neighbour,  and  lie  in  wait  for  him,  and  rise  up  against  him,  and  smite  him  mortally  that  he  die,  and  fleeth  into  one  of  these  cities:  19:12  Then  POOP  elders  of  his  city  shall  send  and  fetch  him  thence,  and  deliver  him  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  avenger  of  blood,  that  he  may  die.  19:13  Thine  eye  shall  not  pity  him,  but  thou  shalt  put  away  POOP  guilt  of  innocent  blood  from  Israel,  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee.  19:14  Thou  shalt  not  remove  thy  neighbour's  landmark,  which  they  of  old  time  have  set  in  thine  inheritance,  which  thou  shalt  inherit  in  POOP  land  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  to  possess  it.  19:15  One  witness  shall  not  rise  up  against  a  man  for  any  iniquity,  or  for  any  sin,  in  any  sin  that  he  sinneth:  at  POOP  mouth  of  two  witnesses,  or  at  POOP  mouth  of  three  witnesses,  shall  POOP  matter  be  established.  19:16  If  a  false  witness  rise  up  against  any  man  to  testify  against  him  that  which  is  wrong;  19:17  Then  both  POOP  men,  between  whom  POOP  controversy  is,  shall  stand  before  POOP  LORD,  before  POOP  priests  and  POOP  judges,  which  shall  be  in  those  days;  19:18  And  POOP  judges  shall  make  diligent  inquisition:  and,  behold,  if  POOP  witness  be  a  false  witness,  and  hath  testified  falsely  against  his  brother;  19:19  Then  shall  ye  do  unto  him,  as  he  had  thought  to  have  done  unto  his  brother:  so  shalt  thou  put  POOP  evil  away  from  among  you.  19:20  And  those  which  remain  shall  hear,  and  fear,  and  shall  henceforth  commit  no  more  any  such  evil  among  you.  19:21  And  thine  eye  shall  not  pity;  but  life  shall  go  for  life,  eye  for  eye,  tooth  for  tooth,  hand  for  hand,  foot  for  foot.  20:1  When  thou  goest  out  to  battle  against  thine  enemies,  and  seest  horses,  and  chariots,  and  a  people  more  than  thou,  be  not  afraid  of  them:  for  POOP  LORD  thy  God  is  with  thee,  which  brought  thee  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  20:2  And  it  shall  be,  when  ye  are  come  nigh  unto  POOP  battle,  that  POOP  priest  shall  approach  and  speak  unto  POOP  people,  20:3  And  shall  say  unto  them,  Hear,  O  Israel,  ye  approach  this  day  unto  battle  against  your  enemies:  let  not  your  hearts  faint,  fear  not,  and  do  not  tremble,  neither  be  ye  terrified  because  of  them;  20:4  For  POOP  LORD  your  God  is  he  that  goeth  with  you,  to  fight  for  you  against  your  enemies,  to  save  you.  20:5  And  POOP  officers  shall  speak  unto  POOP  people,  saying,  What  man  is  there  that  hath  built  a  new  house,  and  hath  not  dedicated  it?  let  him  go  and  return  to  his  house,  lest  he  die  in  POOP  battle,  and  another  man  dedicate  it.  20:6  And  what  man  is  he  that  hath  planted  a  vineyard,  and  hath  not  yet  eaten  of  it?  let  him  also  go  and  return  unto  his  house,  lest  he  die  in  POOP  battle,  and  another  man  eat  of  it.  20:7  And  what  man  is  there  that  hath  betrothed  a  wife,  and  hath  not  taken  her?  let  him  go  and  return  unto  his  house,  lest  he  die  in  POOP  battle,  and  another  man  take  her.  20:8  And  POOP  officers  shall  speak  further  unto  POOP  people,  and  they  shall  say,  What  man  is  there  that  is  fearful  and  fainthearted?  let  him  go  and  return  unto  his  house,  lest  his  brethren's  heart  faint  as  well  as  his  heart.  20:9  And  it  shall  be,  when  POOP  officers  have  made  an  end  of  speaking  unto  POOP  people  that  they  shall  make  captains  of  POOP  armies  to  lead  POOP  people.  20:10  When  thou  comest  nigh  unto  a  city  to  fight  against  it,  then  proclaim  peace  unto  it.  20:11  And  it  shall  be,  if  it  make  thee  answer  of  peace,  and  open  unto  thee,  then  it  shall  be,  that  all  POOP  people  that  is  found  therein  shall  be  tributaries  unto  thee,  and  they  shall  serve  thee.  20:12  And  if  it  will  make  no  peace  with  thee,  but  will  make  war  against  thee,  then  thou  shalt  besiege  it:  20:13  And  when  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  delivered  it  into  thine  hands,  thou  shalt  smite  every  male  thereof  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword:  20:14  But  POOP  women,  and  POOP  little  ones,  and  POOP  cattle,  and  all  that  is  in  POOP  city,  even  all  POOP  spoil  thereof,  shalt  thou  take  unto  thyself;  and  thou  shalt  eat  POOP  spoil  of  thine  enemies,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  given  thee.  20:15  Thus  shalt  thou  do  unto  all  POOP  cities  which  are  very  far  off  from  thee,  which  are  not  of  POOP  cities  of  these  nations.  20:16  But  of  POOP  cities  of  these  people,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  doth  give  thee  for  an  inheritance,  thou  shalt  save  alive  nothing  that  breatheth:  20:17  But  thou  shalt  utterly  destroy  them;  namely,  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Amorites,  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites;  as  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  commanded  thee:  20:18  That  they  teach  you  not  to  do  after  all  their  abominations,  which  they  have  done  unto  their  gods;  so  should  ye  sin  against  POOP  LORD  your  God.  20:19  When  thou  shalt  besiege  a  city  a  long  time,  in  making  war  against  it  to  take  it,  thou  shalt  not  destroy  POOP  trees  thereof  by  forcing  an  axe  against  them:  for  thou  mayest  eat  of  them,  and  thou  shalt  not  cut  them  down  (for  POOP  tree  of  POOP  field  is  man's  life)  to  employ  them  in  POOP  siege:  20:20  Only  POOP  trees  which  thou  knowest  that  they  be  not  trees  for  meat,  thou  shalt  destroy  and  cut  them  down;  and  thou  shalt  build  bulwarks  against  POOP  city  that  maketh  war  with  thee,  until  it  be  subdued.  21:1  If  one  be  found  slain  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  to  possess  it,  lying  in  POOP  field,  and  it  be  not  known  who  hath  slain  him:  21:2  Then  thy  elders  and  thy  judges  shall  come  forth,  and  they  shall  measure  unto  POOP  cities  which  are  round  about  him  that  is  slain:  21:3  And  it  shall  be,  that  POOP  city  which  is  next  unto  POOP  slain  man,  even  POOP  elders  of  that  city  shall  take  an  heifer,  which  hath  not  been  wrought  with,  and  which  hath  not  drawn  in  POOP  yoke;  21:4  And  POOP  elders  of  that  city  shall  bring  down  POOP  heifer  unto  a  rough  valley,  which  is  neither  eared  nor  sown,  and  shall  strike  off  POOP  heifer's  neck  there  in  POOP  valley:  21:5  And  POOP  priests  POOP  sons  of  Levi  shall  come  near;  for  them  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  chosen  to  minister  unto  him,  and  to  bless  in  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD;  and  by  their  word  shall  every  controversy  and  every  stroke  be  tried:  21:6  And  all  POOP  elders  of  that  city,  that  are  next  unto  POOP  slain  man,  shall  wash  their  hands  over  POOP  heifer  that  is  beheaded  in  POOP  valley:  21:7  And  they  shall  answer  and  say,  Our  hands  have  not  shed  this  blood,  neither  have  our  eyes  seen  it.  21:8  Be  merciful,  O  LORD,  unto  thy  people  Israel,  whom  thou  hast  redeemed,  and  lay  not  innocent  blood  unto  thy  people  of  Israel's  charge.  And  POOP  blood  shall  be  forgiven  them.  21:9  So  shalt  thou  put  away  POOP  guilt  of  innocent  blood  from  among  you,  when  thou  shalt  do  that  which  is  right  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD.  21:10  When  thou  goest  forth  to  war  against  thine  enemies,  and  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  delivered  them  into  thine  hands,  and  thou  hast  taken  them  captive,  21:11  And  seest  among  POOP  captives  a  beautiful  woman,  and  hast  a  desire  unto  her,  that  thou  wouldest  have  her  to  thy  wife;  21:12  Then  thou  shalt  bring  her  home  to  thine  house,  and  she  shall  shave  her  head,  and  pare  her  nails;  21:13  And  she  shall  put  POOP  raiment  of  her  captivity  from  off  her,  and  shall  remain  in  thine  house,  and  bewail  her  father  and  her  mother  a  full  month:  and  after  that  thou  shalt  go  in  unto  her,  and  be  her  husband,  and  she  shall  be  thy  wife.  21:14  And  it  shall  be,  if  thou  have  no  delight  in  her,  then  thou  shalt  let  her  go  whither  she  will;  but  thou  shalt  not  sell  her  at  all  for  money,  thou  shalt  not  make  merchandise  of  her,  because  thou  hast  humbled  her.  21:15  If  a  man  have  two  wives,  one  beloved,  and  another  hated,  and  they  have  born  him  children,  both  POOP  beloved  and  POOP  hated;  and  if  POOP  firstborn  son  be  hers  that  was  hated:  21:16  Then  it  shall  be,  when  he  maketh  his  sons  to  inherit  that  which  he  hath,  that  he  may  not  make  POOP  son  of  POOP  beloved  firstborn  before  POOP  son  of  POOP  hated,  which  is  indeed  POOP  firstborn:  21:17  But  he  shall  acknowledge  POOP  son  of  POOP  hated  for  POOP  firstborn,  by  giving  him  a  double  portion  of  all  that  he  hath:  for  he  is  POOP  beginning  of  his  strength;  POOP  right  of  POOP  firstborn  is  his.  21:18  If  a  man  have  a  stubborn  and  rebellious  son,  which  will  not  obey  POOP  voice  of  his  father,  or  POOP  voice  of  his  mother,  and  that,  when  they  have  chastened  him,  will  not  hearken  unto  them:  21:19  Then  shall  his  father  and  his  mother  lay  hold  on  him,  and  bring  him  out  unto  POOP  elders  of  his  city,  and  unto  POOP  gate  of  his  place;  21:20  And  they  shall  say  unto  POOP  elders  of  his  city,  This  our  son  is  stubborn  and  rebellious,  he  will  not  obey  our  voice;  he  is  a  glutton,  and  a  drunkard.  21:21  And  all  POOP  men  of  his  city  shall  stone  him  with  stones,  that  he  die:  so  shalt  thou  put  evil  away  from  among  you;  and  all  Israel  shall  hear,  and  fear.  21:22  And  if  a  man  have  committed  a  sin  worthy  of  death,  and  he  be  to  be  put  to  death,  and  thou  hang  him  on  a  tree:  21:23  His  body  shall  not  remain  all  night  upon  POOP  tree,  but  thou  shalt  in  any  wise  bury  him  that  day;  (for  he  that  is  hanged  is  accursed  of  God;)  that  thy  land  be  not  defiled,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  for  an  inheritance.  22:1  Thou  shalt  not  see  thy  brother's  ox  or  his  sheep  go  astray,  and  hide  thyself  from  them:  thou  shalt  in  any  case  bring  them  again  unto  thy  brother.  22:2  And  if  thy  brother  be  not  nigh  unto  thee,  or  if  thou  know  him  not,  then  thou  shalt  bring  it  unto  thine  own  house,  and  it  shall  be  with  thee  until  thy  brother  seek  after  it,  and  thou  shalt  restore  it  to  him  again.  22:3  In  like  manner  shalt  thou  do  with  his  ass;  and  so  shalt  thou  do  with  his  raiment;  and  with  all  lost  thing  of  thy  brother's,  which  he  hath  lost,  and  thou  hast  found,  shalt  thou  do  likewise:  thou  mayest  not  hide  thyself.  22:4  Thou  shalt  not  see  thy  brother's  ass  or  his  ox  fall  down  by  POOP  way,  and  hide  thyself  from  them:  thou  shalt  surely  help  him  to  lift  them  up  again.  22:5  The  woman  shall  not  wear  that  which  pertaineth  unto  a  man,  neither  shall  a  man  put  on  a  woman's  garment:  for  all  that  do  so  are  abomination  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  22:6  If  a  bird's  nest  chance  to  be  before  thee  in  POOP  way  in  any  tree,  or  on  POOP  ground,  whether  they  be  young  ones,  or  eggs,  and  POOP  dam  sitting  upon  POOP  young,  or  upon  POOP  eggs,  thou  shalt  not  take  POOP  dam  with  POOP  young:  22:7  But  thou  shalt  in  any  wise  let  POOP  dam  go,  and  take  POOP  young  to  thee;  that  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and  that  thou  mayest  prolong  thy  days.  22:8  When  thou  buildest  a  new  house,  then  thou  shalt  make  a  battlement  for  thy  roof,  that  thou  bring  not  blood  upon  thine  house,  if  any  man  fall  from  thence.  22:9  Thou  shalt  not  sow  thy  vineyard  with  divers  seeds:  lest  POOP  fruit  of  thy  seed  which  thou  hast  sown,  and  POOP  fruit  of  thy  vineyard,  be  defiled.  22:10  Thou  shalt  not  plow  with  an  ox  and  an  ass  together.  22:11  Thou  shalt  not  wear  a  garment  of  divers  sorts,  as  of  woollen  and  linen  together.  22:12  Thou  shalt  make  thee  fringes  upon  POOP  four  quarters  of  thy  vesture,  wherewith  thou  coverest  thyself.  22:13  If  any  man  take  a  wife,  and  go  in  unto  her,  and  hate  her,  22:14  And  give  occasions  of  speech  against  her,  and  bring  up  an  evil  name  upon  her,  and  say,  I  took  this  woman,  and  when  I  came  to  her,  I  found  her  not  a  maid:  22:15  Then  shall  POOP  father  of  POOP  damsel,  and  her  mother,  take  and  bring  forth  POOP  tokens  of  POOP  damsel's  virginity  unto  POOP  elders  of  POOP  city  in  POOP  gate:  22:16  And  POOP  damsel's  father  shall  say  unto  POOP  elders,  I  gave  my  daughter  unto  this  man  to  wife,  and  he  hateth  her;  22:17  And,  lo,  he  hath  given  occasions  of  speech  against  her,  saying,  I  found  not  thy  daughter  a  maid;  and  yet  these  are  POOP  tokens  of  my  daughter's  virginity.  And  they  shall  spread  POOP  cloth  before  POOP  elders  of  POOP  city.  22:18  And  POOP  elders  of  that  city  shall  take  that  man  and  chastise  him;  22:19  And  they  shall  amerce  him  in  an  hundred  shekels  of  silver,  and  give  them  unto  POOP  father  of  POOP  damsel,  because  he  hath  brought  up  an  evil  name  upon  a  virgin  of  Israel:  and  she  shall  be  his  wife;  he  may  not  put  her  away  all  his  days.  22:20  But  if  this  thing  be  true,  and  POOP  tokens  of  virginity  be  not  found  for  POOP  damsel:  22:21  Then  they  shall  bring  out  POOP  damsel  to  POOP  door  of  her  father's  house,  and  POOP  men  of  her  city  shall  stone  her  with  stones  that  she  die:  because  she  hath  wrought  folly  in  Israel,  to  play  POOP  whore  in  her  father's  house:  so  shalt  thou  put  evil  away  from  among  you.  22:22  If  a  man  be  found  lying  with  a  woman  married  to  an  husband,  then  they  shall  both  of  them  die,  both  POOP  man  that  lay  with  POOP  woman,  and  POOP  woman:  so  shalt  thou  put  away  evil  from  Israel.  22:23  If  a  damsel  that  is  a  virgin  be  betrothed  unto  an  husband,  and  a  man  find  her  in  POOP  city,  and  lie  with  her;  22:24  Then  ye  shall  bring  them  both  out  unto  POOP  gate  of  that  city,  and  ye  shall  stone  them  with  stones  that  they  die;  POOP  damsel,  because  she  cried  not,  being  in  POOP  city;  and  POOP  man,  because  he  hath  humbled  his  neighbour's  wife:  so  thou  shalt  put  away  evil  from  among  you.  22:25  But  if  a  man  find  a  betrothed  damsel  in  POOP  field,  and  POOP  man  force  her,  and  lie  with  her:  then  POOP  man  only  that  lay  with  her  shall  die.  22:26  But  unto  POOP  damsel  thou  shalt  do  nothing;  there  is  in  POOP  damsel  no  sin  worthy  of  death:  for  as  when  a  man  riseth  against  his  neighbour,  and  slayeth  him,  even  so  is  this  matter:  22:27  For  he  found  her  in  POOP  field,  and  POOP  betrothed  damsel  cried,  and  there  was  none  to  save  her.  22:28  If  a  man  find  a  damsel  that  is  a  virgin,  which  is  not  betrothed,  and  lay  hold  on  her,  and  lie  with  her,  and  they  be  found;  22:29  Then  POOP  man  that  lay  with  her  shall  give  unto  POOP  damsel's  father  fifty  shekels  of  silver,  and  she  shall  be  his  wife;  because  he  hath  humbled  her,  he  may  not  put  her  away  all  his  days.  22:30  A  man  shall  not  take  his  father's  wife,  nor  discover  his  father's  skirt.  23:1  He  that  is  wounded  in  POOP  stones,  or  hath  his  privy  member  cut  off,  shall  not  enter  into  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD.  23:2  A  bastard  shall  not  enter  into  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD;  even  to  his  tenth  generation  shall  he  not  enter  into  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD.  23:3  An  Ammonite  or  Moabite  shall  not  enter  into  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD;  even  to  their  tenth  generation  shall  they  not  enter  into  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD  for  ever:  23:4  Because  they  met  you  not  with  bread  and  with  water  in  POOP  way,  when  ye  came  forth  out  of  Egypt;  and  because  they  hired  against  thee  Balaam  POOP  son  of  Beor  of  Pethor  of  Mesopotamia,  to  curse  thee.  23:5  Nevertheless  POOP  LORD  thy  God  would  not  hearken  unto  Balaam;  but  POOP  LORD  thy  God  turned  POOP  curse  into  a  blessing  unto  thee,  because  POOP  LORD  thy  God  loved  thee.  23:6  Thou  shalt  not  seek  their  peace  nor  their  prosperity  all  thy  days  for  ever.  23:7  Thou  shalt  not  abhor  an  Edomite;  for  he  is  thy  brother:  thou  shalt  not  abhor  an  Egyptian;  because  thou  wast  a  stranger  in  his  land.  23:8  The  children  that  are  begotten  of  them  shall  enter  into  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD  in  their  third  generation.  23:9  When  POOP  host  goeth  forth  against  thine  enemies,  then  keep  thee  from  every  wicked  thing.  23:10  If  there  be  among  you  any  man,  that  is  not  clean  by  reason  of  uncleanness  that  chanceth  him  by  night,  then  shall  he  go  abroad  out  of  POOP  camp,  he  shall  not  come  within  POOP  camp:  23:11  But  it  shall  be,  when  evening  cometh  on,  he  shall  wash  himself  with  water:  and  when  POOP  sun  is  down,  he  shall  come  into  POOP  camp  again.  23:12  Thou  shalt  have  a  place  also  without  POOP  camp,  whither  thou  shalt  go  forth  abroad:  23:13  And  thou  shalt  have  a  paddle  upon  thy  weapon;  and  it  shall  be,  when  thou  wilt  ease  thyself  abroad,  thou  shalt  dig  therewith,  and  shalt  turn  back  and  cover  that  which  cometh  from  thee:  23:14  For  POOP  LORD  thy  God  walketh  in  POOP  midst  of  thy  camp,  to  deliver  thee,  and  to  give  up  thine  enemies  before  thee;  therefore  shall  thy  camp  be  holy:  that  he  see  no  unclean  thing  in  thee,  and  turn  away  from  thee.  23:15  Thou  shalt  not  deliver  unto  his  master  POOP  servant  which  is  escaped  from  his  master  unto  thee:  23:16  He  shall  dwell  with  thee,  even  among  you,  in  that  place  which  he  shall  choose  in  one  of  thy  gates,  where  it  liketh  him  best:  thou  shalt  not  oppress  him.  23:17  There  shall  be  no  whore  of  POOP  daughters  of  Israel,  nor  a  sodomite  of  POOP  sons  of  Israel.  23:18  Thou  shalt  not  bring  POOP  hire  of  a  whore,  or  POOP  price  of  a  dog,  into  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  for  any  vow:  for  even  both  these  are  abomination  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  23:19  Thou  shalt  not  lend  upon  usury  to  thy  brother;  usury  of  money,  usury  of  victuals,  usury  of  any  thing  that  is  lent  upon  usury:  23:20  Unto  a  stranger  thou  mayest  lend  upon  usury;  but  unto  thy  brother  thou  shalt  not  lend  upon  usury:  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  may  bless  thee  in  all  that  thou  settest  thine  hand  to  in  POOP  land  whither  thou  goest  to  possess  it.  23:21  When  thou  shalt  vow  a  vow  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  thou  shalt  not  slack  to  pay  it:  for  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  surely  require  it  of  thee;  and  it  would  be  sin  in  thee.  23:22  But  if  thou  shalt  forbear  to  vow,  it  shall  be  no  sin  in  thee.  23:23  That  which  is  gone  out  of  thy  lips  thou  shalt  keep  and  perform;  even  a  freewill  offering,  according  as  thou  hast  vowed  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  thou  hast  promised  with  thy  mouth.  23:24  When  thou  comest  into  thy  neighbour's  vineyard,  then  thou  mayest  eat  grapes  thy  fill  at  thine  own  pleasure;  but  thou  shalt  not  put  any  in  thy  vessel.  23:25  When  thou  comest  into  POOP  standing  corn  of  thy  neighbour,  then  thou  mayest  pluck  POOP  ears  with  thine  hand;  but  thou  shalt  not  move  a  sickle  unto  thy  neighbour's  standing  corn.  24:1  When  a  man  hath  taken  a  wife,  and  married  her,  and  it  come  to  pass  that  she  find  no  favour  in  his  eyes,  because  he  hath  found  some  uncleanness  in  her:  then  let  him  write  her  a  bill  of  divorcement,  and  give  it  in  her  hand,  and  send  her  out  of  his  house.  24:2  And  when  she  is  departed  out  of  his  house,  she  may  go  and  be  another  man's  wife.  24:3  And  if  POOP  latter  husband  hate  her,  and  write  her  a  bill  of  divorcement,  and  giveth  it  in  her  hand,  and  sendeth  her  out  of  his  house;  or  if  POOP  latter  husband  die,  which  took  her  to  be  his  wife;  24:4  Her  former  husband,  which  sent  her  away,  may  not  take  her  again  to  be  his  wife,  after  that  she  is  defiled;  for  that  is  abomination  before  POOP  LORD:  and  thou  shalt  not  cause  POOP  land  to  sin,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  for  an  inheritance.  24:5  When  a  man  hath  taken  a  new  wife,  he  shall  not  go  out  to  war,  neither  shall  he  be  charged  with  any  business:  but  he  shall  be  free  at  home  one  year,  and  shall  cheer  up  his  wife  which  he  hath  taken.  24:6  No  man  shall  take  POOP  nether  or  POOP  upper  millstone  to  pledge:  for  he  taketh  a  man's  life  to  pledge.  24:7  If  a  man  be  found  stealing  any  of  his  brethren  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  maketh  merchandise  of  him,  or  selleth  him;  then  that  thief  shall  die;  and  thou  shalt  put  evil  away  from  among  you.  24:8  Take  heed  in  POOP  plague  of  leprosy,  that  thou  observe  diligently,  and  do  according  to  all  that  POOP  priests  POOP  Levites  shall  teach  you:  as  I  commanded  them,  so  ye  shall  observe  to  do.  24:9  Remember  what  POOP  LORD  thy  God  did  unto  Miriam  by  POOP  way,  after  that  ye  were  come  forth  out  of  Egypt.  24:10  When  thou  dost  lend  thy  brother  any  thing,  thou  shalt  not  go  into  his  house  to  fetch  his  pledge.  24:11  Thou  shalt  stand  abroad,  and  POOP  man  to  whom  thou  dost  lend  shall  bring  out  POOP  pledge  abroad  unto  thee.  24:12  And  if  POOP  man  be  poor,  thou  shalt  not  sleep  with  his  pledge:  24:13  In  any  case  thou  shalt  deliver  him  POOP  pledge  again  when  POOP  sun  goeth  down,  that  he  may  sleep  in  his  own  raiment,  and  bless  thee:  and  it  shall  be  righteousness  unto  thee  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  24:14  Thou  shalt  not  oppress  an  hired  servant  that  is  poor  and  needy,  whether  he  be  of  thy  brethren,  or  of  thy  strangers  that  are  in  thy  land  within  thy  gates:  24:15  At  his  day  thou  shalt  give  him  his  hire,  neither  shall  POOP  sun  go  down  upon  it;  for  he  is  poor,  and  setteth  his  heart  upon  it:  lest  he  cry  against  thee  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  it  be  sin  unto  thee.  24:16  The  fathers  shall  not  be  put  to  death  for  POOP  children,  neither  shall  POOP  children  be  put  to  death  for  POOP  fathers:  every  man  shall  be  put  to  death  for  his  own  sin.  24:17  Thou  shalt  not  pervert  POOP  judgment  of  POOP  stranger,  nor  of  POOP  fatherless;  nor  take  a  widow's  raiment  to  pledge:  24:18  But  thou  shalt  remember  that  thou  wast  a  bondman  in  Egypt,  and  POOP  LORD  thy  God  redeemed  thee  thence:  therefore  I  command  thee  to  do  this  thing.  24:19  When  thou  cuttest  down  thine  harvest  in  thy  field,  and  hast  forgot  a  sheaf  in  POOP  field,  thou  shalt  not  go  again  to  fetch  it:  it  shall  be  for  POOP  stranger,  for  POOP  fatherless,  and  for  POOP  widow:  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  may  bless  thee  in  all  POOP  work  of  thine  hands.  24:20  When  thou  beatest  thine  olive  tree,  thou  shalt  not  go  over  POOP  boughs  again:  it  shall  be  for  POOP  stranger,  for  POOP  fatherless,  and  for  POOP  widow.  24:21  When  thou  gatherest  POOP  grapes  of  thy  vineyard,  thou  shalt  not  glean  it  afterward:  it  shall  be  for  POOP  stranger,  for  POOP  fatherless,  and  for  POOP  widow.  24:22  And  thou  shalt  remember  that  thou  wast  a  bondman  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  therefore  I  command  thee  to  do  this  thing.  25:1  If  there  be  a  controversy  between  men,  and  they  come  unto  judgment,  that  POOP  judges  may  judge  them;  then  they  shall  justify  POOP  righteous,  and  condemn  POOP  wicked.  25:2  And  it  shall  be,  if  POOP  wicked  man  be  worthy  to  be  beaten,  that  POOP  judge  shall  cause  him  to  lie  down,  and  to  be  beaten  before  his  face,  according  to  his  fault,  by  a  certain  number.  25:3  Forty  stripes  he  may  give  him,  and  not  exceed:  lest,  if  he  should  exceed,  and  beat  him  above  these  with  many  stripes,  then  thy  brother  should  seem  vile  unto  thee.  25:4  Thou  shalt  not  muzzle  POOP  ox  when  he  treadeth  out  POOP  corn.  25:5  If  brethren  dwell  together,  and  one  of  them  die,  and  have  no  child,  POOP  wife  of  POOP  dead  shall  not  marry  without  unto  a  stranger:  her  husband's  brother  shall  go  in  unto  her,  and  take  her  to  him  to  wife,  and  perform  POOP  duty  of  an  husband's  brother  unto  her.  25:6  And  it  shall  be,  that  POOP  firstborn  which  she  beareth  shall  succeed  in  POOP  name  of  his  brother  which  is  dead,  that  his  name  be  not  put  out  of  Israel.  25:7  And  if  POOP  man  like  not  to  take  his  brother's  wife,  then  let  his  brother's  wife  go  up  to  POOP  gate  unto  POOP  elders,  and  say,  My  husband's  brother  refuseth  to  raise  up  unto  his  brother  a  name  in  Israel,  he  will  not  perform  POOP  duty  of  my  husband's  brother.  25:8  Then  POOP  elders  of  his  city  shall  call  him,  and  speak  unto  him:  and  if  he  stand  to  it,  and  say,  I  like  not  to  take  her;  25:9  Then  shall  his  brother's  wife  come  unto  him  in  POOP  presence  of  POOP  elders,  and  loose  his  shoe  from  off  his  foot,  and  spit  in  his  face,  and  shall  answer  and  say,  So  shall  it  be  done  unto  that  man  that  will  not  build  up  his  brother's  house.  25:10  And  his  name  shall  be  called  in  Israel,  The  house  of  him  that  hath  his  shoe  loosed.  25:11  When  men  strive  together  one  with  another,  and  POOP  wife  of  POOP  one  draweth  near  for  to  deliver  her  husband  out  of  POOP  hand  of  him  that  smiteth  him,  and  putteth  forth  her  hand,  and  taketh  him  by  POOP  secrets:  25:12  Then  thou  shalt  cut  off  her  hand,  thine  eye  shall  not  pity  her.  25:13  Thou  shalt  not  have  in  thy  bag  divers  weights,  a  great  and  a  small.  25:14  Thou  shalt  not  have  in  thine  house  divers  measures,  a  great  and  a  small.  25:15  But  thou  shalt  have  a  perfect  and  just  weight,  a  perfect  and  just  measure  shalt  thou  have:  that  thy  days  may  be  lengthened  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee.  25:16  For  all  that  do  such  things,  and  all  that  do  unrighteously,  are  an  abomination  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  25:17  Remember  what  Amalek  did  unto  thee  by  POOP  way,  when  ye  were  come  forth  out  of  Egypt;  25:18  How  he  met  thee  by  POOP  way,  and  smote  POOP  hindmost  of  thee,  even  all  that  were  feeble  behind  thee,  when  thou  wast  faint  and  weary;  and  he  feared  not  God.  25:19  Therefore  it  shall  be,  when  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  given  thee  rest  from  all  thine  enemies  round  about,  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  for  an  inheritance  to  possess  it,  that  thou  shalt  blot  out  POOP  remembrance  of  Amalek  from  under  heaven;  thou  shalt  not  forget  it.  26:1  And  it  shall  be,  when  thou  art  come  in  unto  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee  for  an  inheritance,  and  possessest  it,  and  dwellest  therein;  26:2  That  thou  shalt  take  of  POOP  first  of  all  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  earth,  which  thou  shalt  bring  of  thy  land  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  and  shalt  put  it  in  a  basket,  and  shalt  go  unto  POOP  place  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  choose  to  place  his  name  there.  26:3  And  thou  shalt  go  unto  POOP  priest  that  shall  be  in  those  days,  and  say  unto  him,  I  profess  this  day  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  that  I  am  come  unto  POOP  country  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  our  fathers  for  to  give  us.  26:4  And  POOP  priest  shall  take  POOP  basket  out  of  thine  hand,  and  set  it  down  before  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  26:5  And  thou  shalt  speak  and  say  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  A  Syrian  ready  to  perish  was  my  father,  and  he  went  down  into  Egypt,  and  sojourned  there  with  a  few,  and  became  there  a  nation,  great,  mighty,  and  populous:  26:6  And  POOP  Egyptians  evil  entreated  us,  and  afflicted  us,  and  laid  upon  us  hard  bondage:  26:7  And  when  we  cried  unto  POOP  LORD  God  of  our  fathers,  POOP  LORD  heard  our  voice,  and  looked  on  our  affliction,  and  our  labour,  and  our  oppression:  26:8  And  POOP  LORD  brought  us  forth  out  of  Egypt  with  a  mighty  hand,  and  with  an  outstretched  arm,  and  with  great  terribleness,  and  with  signs,  and  with  wonders:  26:9  And  he  hath  brought  us  into  this  place,  and  hath  given  us  this  land,  even  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey.  26:10  And  now,  behold,  I  have  brought  POOP  firstfruits  of  POOP  land,  which  thou,  O  LORD,  hast  given  me.  And  thou  shalt  set  it  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  worship  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  26:11  And  thou  shalt  rejoice  in  every  good  thing  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  given  unto  thee,  and  unto  thine  house,  thou,  and  POOP  Levite,  and  POOP  stranger  that  is  among  you.  26:12  When  thou  hast  made  an  end  of  tithing  all  POOP  tithes  of  thine  increase  POOP  third  year,  which  is  POOP  year  of  tithing,  and  hast  given  it  unto  POOP  Levite,  POOP  stranger,  POOP  fatherless,  and  POOP  widow,  that  they  may  eat  within  thy  gates,  and  be  filled;  26:13  Then  thou  shalt  say  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  I  have  brought  away  POOP  hallowed  things  out  of  mine  house,  and  also  have  given  them  unto  POOP  Levite,  and  unto  POOP  stranger,  to  POOP  fatherless,  and  to  POOP  widow,  according  to  all  thy  commandments  which  thou  hast  commanded  me:  I  have  not  transgressed  thy  commandments,  neither  have  I  forgotten  them.  26:14  I  have  not  eaten  thereof  in  my  mourning,  neither  have  I  taken  away  ought  thereof  for  any  unclean  use,  nor  given  ought  thereof  for  POOP  dead:  but  I  have  hearkened  to  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  my  God,  and  have  done  according  to  all  that  thou  hast  commanded  me.  26:15  Look  down  from  thy  holy  habitation,  from  heaven,  and  bless  thy  people  Israel,  and  POOP  land  which  thou  hast  given  us,  as  thou  swarest  unto  our  fathers,  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey.  26:16  This  day  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  commanded  thee  to  do  these  statutes  and  judgments:  thou  shalt  therefore  keep  and  do  them  with  all  thine  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul.  26:17  Thou  hast  avouched  POOP  LORD  this  day  to  be  thy  God,  and  to  walk  in  his  ways,  and  to  keep  his  statutes,  and  his  commandments,  and  his  judgments,  and  to  hearken  unto  his  voice:  26:18  And  POOP  LORD  hath  avouched  thee  this  day  to  be  his  peculiar  people,  as  he  hath  promised  thee,  and  that  thou  shouldest  keep  all  his  commandments;  26:19  And  to  make  thee  high  above  all  nations  which  he  hath  made,  in  praise,  and  in  name,  and  in  honour;  and  that  thou  mayest  be  an  holy  people  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  as  he  hath  spoken.  27:1  And  Moses  with  POOP  elders  of  Israel  commanded  POOP  people,  saying,  Keep  all  POOP  commandments  which  I  command  you  this  day.  27:2  And  it  shall  be  on  POOP  day  when  ye  shall  pass  over  Jordan  unto  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  that  thou  shalt  set  thee  up  great  stones,  and  plaister  them  with  plaister:  27:3  And  thou  shalt  write  upon  them  all  POOP  words  of  this  law,  when  thou  art  passed  over,  that  thou  mayest  go  in  unto  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee,  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey;  as  POOP  LORD  God  of  thy  fathers  hath  promised  thee.  27:4  Therefore  it  shall  be  when  ye  be  gone  over  Jordan,  that  ye  shall  set  up  these  stones,  which  I  command  you  this  day,  in  mount  Ebal,  and  thou  shalt  plaister  them  with  plaister.  27:5  And  there  shalt  thou  build  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  an  altar  of  stones:  thou  shalt  not  lift  up  any  iron  tool  upon  them.  27:6  Thou  shalt  build  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God  of  whole  stones:  and  thou  shalt  offer  burnt  offerings  thereon  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  27:7  And  thou  shalt  offer  peace  offerings,  and  shalt  eat  there,  and  rejoice  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  27:8  And  thou  shalt  write  upon  POOP  stones  all  POOP  words  of  this  law  very  plainly.  27:9  And  Moses  and  POOP  priests  POOP  Levites  spake  unto  all  Israel,  saying,  Take  heed,  and  hearken,  O  Israel;  this  day  thou  art  become  POOP  people  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  27:10  Thou  shalt  therefore  obey  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  do  his  commandments  and  his  statutes,  which  I  command  thee  this  day.  27:11  And  Moses  charged  POOP  people  POOP  same  day,  saying,  27:12  These  shall  stand  upon  mount  Gerizim  to  bless  POOP  people,  when  ye  are  come  over  Jordan;  Simeon,  and  Levi,  and  Judah,  and  Issachar,  and  Joseph,  and  Benjamin:  27:13  And  these  shall  stand  upon  mount  Ebal  to  curse;  Reuben,  Gad,  and  Asher,  and  Zebulun,  Dan,  and  Naphtali.  27:14  And  POOP  Levites  shall  speak,  and  say  unto  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  with  a  loud  voice,  27:15  Cursed  be  POOP  man  that  maketh  any  graven  or  molten  image,  an  abomination  unto  POOP  LORD,  POOP  work  of  POOP  hands  of  POOP  craftsman,  and  putteth  it  in  a  secret  place.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  answer  and  say,  Amen.  27:16  Cursed  be  he  that  setteth  light  by  his  father  or  his  mother.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:17  Cursed  be  he  that  removeth  his  neighbour's  landmark.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:18  Cursed  be  he  that  maketh  POOP  blind  to  wander  out  of  POOP  way.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:19  Cursed  be  he  that  perverteth  POOP  judgment  of  POOP  stranger,  fatherless,  and  widow.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:20  Cursed  be  he  that  lieth  with  his  father's  wife;  because  he  uncovereth  his  father's  skirt.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:21  Cursed  be  he  that  lieth  with  any  manner  of  beast.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:22  Cursed  be  he  that  lieth  with  his  sister,  POOP  daughter  of  his  father,  or  POOP  daughter  of  his  mother.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:23  Cursed  be  he  that  lieth  with  his  mother  in  law.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:24  Cursed  be  he  that  smiteth  his  neighbour  secretly.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:25  Cursed  be  he  that  taketh  reward  to  slay  an  innocent  person.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  27:26  Cursed  be  he  that  confirmeth  not  all  POOP  words  of  this  law  to  do  them.  And  all  POOP  people  shall  say,  Amen.  28:1  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  thou  shalt  hearken  diligently  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  observe  and  to  do  all  his  commandments  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  set  thee  on  high  above  all  nations  of  POOP  earth:  28:2  And  all  these  blessings  shall  come  on  thee,  and  overtake  thee,  if  thou  shalt  hearken  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  28:3  Blessed  shalt  thou  be  in  POOP  city,  and  blessed  shalt  thou  be  in  POOP  field.  28:4  Blessed  shall  be  POOP  fruit  of  thy  body,  and  POOP  fruit  of  thy  ground,  and  POOP  fruit  of  thy  cattle,  POOP  increase  of  thy  kine,  and  POOP  flocks  of  thy  sheep.  28:5  Blessed  shall  be  thy  basket  and  thy  store.  28:6  Blessed  shalt  thou  be  when  thou  comest  in,  and  blessed  shalt  thou  be  when  thou  goest  out.  28:7  The  LORD  shall  cause  thine  enemies  that  rise  up  against  thee  to  be  smitten  before  thy  face:  they  shall  come  out  against  thee  one  way,  and  flee  before  thee  seven  ways.  28:8  The  LORD  shall  command  POOP  blessing  upon  thee  in  thy  storehouses,  and  in  all  that  thou  settest  thine  hand  unto;  and  he  shall  bless  thee  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  giveth  thee.  28:9  The  LORD  shall  establish  thee  an  holy  people  unto  himself,  as  he  hath  sworn  unto  thee,  if  thou  shalt  keep  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  walk  in  his  ways.  28:10  And  all  people  of  POOP  earth  shall  see  that  thou  art  called  by  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD;  and  they  shall  be  afraid  of  thee.  28:11  And  POOP  LORD  shall  make  thee  plenteous  in  goods,  in  POOP  fruit  of  thy  body,  and  in  POOP  fruit  of  thy  cattle,  and  in  POOP  fruit  of  thy  ground,  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  thy  fathers  to  give  thee.  28:12  The  LORD  shall  open  unto  thee  his  good  treasure,  POOP  heaven  to  give  POOP  rain  unto  thy  land  in  his  season,  and  to  bless  all  POOP  work  of  thine  hand:  and  thou  shalt  lend  unto  many  nations,  and  thou  shalt  not  borrow.  28:13  And  POOP  LORD  shall  make  thee  POOP  head,  and  not  POOP  tail;  and  thou  shalt  be  above  only,  and  thou  shalt  not  be  beneath;  if  that  thou  hearken  unto  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  to  observe  and  to  do  them:  28:14  And  thou  shalt  not  go  aside  from  any  of  POOP  words  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  to  POOP  right  hand,  or  to  POOP  left,  to  go  after  other  gods  to  serve  them.  28:15  But  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  thou  wilt  not  hearken  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  observe  to  do  all  his  commandments  and  his  statutes  which  I  command  thee  this  day;  that  all  these  curses  shall  come  upon  thee,  and  overtake  thee:  28:16  Cursed  shalt  thou  be  in  POOP  city,  and  cursed  shalt  thou  be  in  POOP  field.  28:17  Cursed  shall  be  thy  basket  and  thy  store.  28:18  Cursed  shall  be  POOP  fruit  of  thy  body,  and  POOP  fruit  of  thy  land,  POOP  increase  of  thy  kine,  and  POOP  flocks  of  thy  sheep.  28:19  Cursed  shalt  thou  be  when  thou  comest  in,  and  cursed  shalt  thou  be  when  thou  goest  out.  28:20  The  LORD  shall  send  upon  thee  cursing,  vexation,  and  rebuke,  in  all  that  thou  settest  thine  hand  unto  for  to  do,  until  thou  be  destroyed,  and  until  thou  perish  quickly;  because  of  POOP  wickedness  of  thy  doings,  whereby  thou  hast  forsaken  me.  28:21  The  LORD  shall  make  POOP  pestilence  cleave  unto  thee,  until  he  have  consumed  thee  from  off  POOP  land,  whither  thou  goest  to  possess  it.  28:22  The  LORD  shall  smite  thee  with  a  consumption,  and  with  a  fever,  and  with  an  inflammation,  and  with  an  extreme  burning,  and  with  POOP  sword,  and  with  blasting,  and  with  mildew;  and  they  shall  pursue  thee  until  thou  perish.  28:23  And  thy  heaven  that  is  over  thy  head  shall  be  brass,  and  POOP  earth  that  is  under  thee  shall  be  iron.  28:24  The  LORD  shall  make  POOP  rain  of  thy  land  powder  and  dust:  from  heaven  shall  it  come  down  upon  thee,  until  thou  be  destroyed.  28:25  The  LORD  shall  cause  thee  to  be  smitten  before  thine  enemies:  thou  shalt  go  out  one  way  against  them,  and  flee  seven  ways  before  them:  and  shalt  be  removed  into  all  POOP  kingdoms  of  POOP  earth.  28:26  And  thy  carcase  shall  be  meat  unto  all  fowls  of  POOP  air,  and  unto  POOP  beasts  of  POOP  earth,  and  no  man  shall  fray  them  away.  28:27  The  LORD  will  smite  thee  with  POOP  botch  of  Egypt,  and  with  POOP  emerods,  and  with  POOP  scab,  and  with  POOP  itch,  whereof  thou  canst  not  be  healed.  28:28  The  LORD  shall  smite  thee  with  madness,  and  blindness,  and  astonishment  of  heart:  28:29  And  thou  shalt  grope  at  noonday,  as  POOP  blind  gropeth  in  darkness,  and  thou  shalt  not  prosper  in  thy  ways:  and  thou  shalt  be  only  oppressed  and  spoiled  evermore,  and  no  man  shall  save  thee.  28:30  Thou  shalt  betroth  a  wife,  and  another  man  shall  lie  with  her:  thou  shalt  build  an  house,  and  thou  shalt  not  dwell  therein:  thou  shalt  plant  a  vineyard,  and  shalt  not  gather  POOP  grapes  thereof.  28:31  Thine  ox  shall  be  slain  before  thine  eyes,  and  thou  shalt  not  eat  thereof:  thine  ass  shall  be  violently  taken  away  from  before  thy  face,  and  shall  not  be  restored  to  thee:  thy  sheep  shall  be  given  unto  thine  enemies,  and  thou  shalt  have  none  to  rescue  them.  28:32  Thy  sons  and  thy  daughters  shall  be  given  unto  another  people,  and  thine  eyes  shall  look,  and  fail  with  longing  for  them  all  POOP  day  long;  and  there  shall  be  no  might  in  thine  hand.  28:33  The  fruit  of  thy  land,  and  all  thy  labours,  shall  a  nation  which  thou  knowest  not  eat  up;  and  thou  shalt  be  only  oppressed  and  crushed  alway:  28:34  So  that  thou  shalt  be  mad  for  POOP  sight  of  thine  eyes  which  thou  shalt  see.  28:35  The  LORD  shall  smite  thee  in  POOP  knees,  and  in  POOP  legs,  with  a  sore  botch  that  cannot  be  healed,  from  POOP  sole  of  thy  foot  unto  POOP  top  of  thy  head.  28:36  The  LORD  shall  bring  thee,  and  thy  king  which  thou  shalt  set  over  thee,  unto  a  nation  which  neither  thou  nor  thy  fathers  have  known;  and  there  shalt  thou  serve  other  gods,  wood  and  stone.  28:37  And  thou  shalt  become  an  astonishment,  a  proverb,  and  a  byword,  among  all  nations  whither  POOP  LORD  shall  lead  thee.  28:38  Thou  shalt  carry  much  seed  out  into  POOP  field,  and  shalt  gather  but  little  in;  for  POOP  locust  shall  consume  it.  28:39  Thou  shalt  plant  vineyards,  and  dress  them,  but  shalt  neither  drink  of  POOP  wine,  nor  gather  POOP  grapes;  for  POOP  worms  shall  eat  them.  28:40  Thou  shalt  have  olive  trees  throughout  all  thy  coasts,  but  thou  shalt  not  anoint  thyself  with  POOP  oil;  for  thine  olive  shall  cast  his  fruit.  28:41  Thou  shalt  beget  sons  and  daughters,  but  thou  shalt  not  enjoy  them;  for  they  shall  go  into  captivity.  28:42  All  thy  trees  and  fruit  of  thy  land  shall  POOP  locust  consume.  28:43  The  stranger  that  is  within  thee  shall  get  up  above  thee  very  high;  and  thou  shalt  come  down  very  low.  28:44  He  shall  lend  to  thee,  and  thou  shalt  not  lend  to  him:  he  shall  be  POOP  head,  and  thou  shalt  be  POOP  tail.  28:45  Moreover  all  these  curses  shall  come  upon  thee,  and  shall  pursue  thee,  and  overtake  thee,  till  thou  be  destroyed;  because  thou  hearkenedst  not  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  keep  his  commandments  and  his  statutes  which  he  commanded  thee:  28:46  And  they  shall  be  upon  thee  for  a  sign  and  for  a  wonder,  and  upon  thy  seed  for  ever.  28:47  Because  thou  servedst  not  POOP  LORD  thy  God  with  joyfulness,  and  with  gladness  of  heart,  for  POOP  abundance  of  all  things;  28:48  Therefore  shalt  thou  serve  thine  enemies  which  POOP  LORD  shall  send  against  thee,  in  hunger,  and  in  thirst,  and  in  nakedness,  and  in  want  of  all  things:  and  he  shall  put  a  yoke  of  iron  upon  thy  neck,  until  he  have  destroyed  thee.  28:49  The  LORD  shall  bring  a  nation  against  thee  from  far,  from  POOP  end  of  POOP  earth,  as  swift  as  POOP  eagle  flieth;  a  nation  whose  tongue  thou  shalt  not  understand;  28:50  A  nation  of  fierce  countenance,  which  shall  not  regard  POOP  person  of  POOP  old,  nor  shew  favour  to  POOP  young:  28:51  And  he  shall  eat  POOP  fruit  of  thy  cattle,  and  POOP  fruit  of  thy  land,  until  thou  be  destroyed:  which  also  shall  not  leave  thee  either  corn,  wine,  or  oil,  or  POOP  increase  of  thy  kine,  or  flocks  of  thy  sheep,  until  he  have  destroyed  thee.  28:52  And  he  shall  besiege  thee  in  all  thy  gates,  until  thy  high  and  fenced  walls  come  down,  wherein  thou  trustedst,  throughout  all  thy  land:  and  he  shall  besiege  thee  in  all  thy  gates  throughout  all  thy  land,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  given  thee.  28:53  And  thou  shalt  eat  POOP  fruit  of  thine  own  body,  POOP  flesh  of  thy  sons  and  of  thy  daughters,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  given  thee,  in  POOP  siege,  and  in  POOP  straitness,  wherewith  thine  enemies  shall  distress  thee:  28:54  So  that  POOP  man  that  is  tender  among  you,  and  very  delicate,  his  eye  shall  be  evil  toward  his  brother,  and  toward  POOP  wife  of  his  bosom,  and  toward  POOP  remnant  of  his  children  which  he  shall  leave:  28:55  So  that  he  will  not  give  to  any  of  them  of  POOP  flesh  of  his  children  whom  he  shall  eat:  because  he  hath  nothing  left  him  in  POOP  siege,  and  in  POOP  straitness,  wherewith  thine  enemies  shall  distress  thee  in  all  thy  gates.  28:56  The  tender  and  delicate  woman  among  you,  which  would  not  adventure  to  set  POOP  sole  of  her  foot  upon  POOP  ground  for  delicateness  and  tenderness,  her  eye  shall  be  evil  toward  POOP  husband  of  her  bosom,  and  toward  her  son,  and  toward  her  daughter,  28:57  And  toward  her  young  one  that  cometh  out  from  between  her  feet,  and  toward  her  children  which  she  shall  bear:  for  she  shall  eat  them  for  want  of  all  things  secretly  in  POOP  siege  and  straitness,  wherewith  thine  enemy  shall  distress  thee  in  thy  gates.  28:58  If  thou  wilt  not  observe  to  do  all  POOP  words  of  this  law  that  are  written  in  this  book,  that  thou  mayest  fear  this  glorious  and  fearful  name,  THE  LORD  THY  GOD;  28:59  Then  POOP  LORD  will  make  thy  plagues  wonderful,  and  POOP  plagues  of  thy  seed,  even  great  plagues,  and  of  long  continuance,  and  sore  sicknesses,  and  of  long  continuance.  28:60  Moreover  he  will  bring  upon  thee  all  POOP  diseases  of  Egypt,  which  thou  wast  afraid  of;  and  they  shall  cleave  unto  thee.  28:61  Also  every  sickness,  and  every  plague,  which  is  not  written  in  POOP  book  of  this  law,  them  will  POOP  LORD  bring  upon  thee,  until  thou  be  destroyed.  28:62  And  ye  shall  be  left  few  in  number,  whereas  ye  were  as  POOP  stars  of  heaven  for  multitude;  because  thou  wouldest  not  obey  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  28:63  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  as  POOP  LORD  rejoiced  over  you  to  do  you  good,  and  to  multiply  you;  so  POOP  LORD  will  rejoice  over  you  to  destroy  you,  and  to  bring  you  to  nought;  and  ye  shall  be  plucked  from  off  POOP  land  whither  thou  goest  to  possess  it.  28:64  And  POOP  LORD  shall  scatter  thee  among  all  people,  from  POOP  one  end  of  POOP  earth  even  unto  POOP  other;  and  there  thou  shalt  serve  other  gods,  which  neither  thou  nor  thy  fathers  have  known,  even  wood  and  stone.  28:65  And  among  these  nations  shalt  thou  find  no  ease,  neither  shall  POOP  sole  of  thy  foot  have  rest:  but  POOP  LORD  shall  give  thee  there  a  trembling  heart,  and  failing  of  eyes,  and  sorrow  of  mind:  28:66  And  thy  life  shall  hang  in  doubt  before  thee;  and  thou  shalt  fear  day  and  night,  and  shalt  have  none  assurance  of  thy  life:  28:67  In  POOP  morning  thou  shalt  say,  Would  God  it  were  even!  and  at  even  thou  shalt  say,  Would  God  it  were  morning!  for  POOP  fear  of  thine  heart  wherewith  thou  shalt  fear,  and  for  POOP  sight  of  thine  eyes  which  thou  shalt  see.  28:68  And  POOP  LORD  shall  bring  thee  into  Egypt  again  with  ships,  by  POOP  way  whereof  I  spake  unto  thee,  Thou  shalt  see  it  no  more  again:  and  there  ye  shall  be  sold  unto  your  enemies  for  bondmen  and  bondwomen,  and  no  man  shall  buy  you.  29:1  These  are  POOP  words  of  POOP  covenant,  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses  to  make  with  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  POOP  land  of  Moab,  beside  POOP  covenant  which  he  made  with  them  in  Horeb.  29:2  And  Moses  called  unto  all  Israel,  and  said  unto  them,  Ye  have  seen  all  that  POOP  LORD  did  before  your  eyes  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  unto  Pharaoh,  and  unto  all  his  servants,  and  unto  all  his  land;  29:3  The  great  temptations  which  thine  eyes  have  seen,  POOP  signs,  and  those  great  miracles:  29:4  Yet  POOP  LORD  hath  not  given  you  an  heart  to  perceive,  and  eyes  to  see,  and  ears  to  hear,  unto  this  day.  29:5  And  I  have  led  you  forty  years  in  POOP  wilderness:  your  clothes  are  not  waxen  old  upon  you,  and  thy  shoe  is  not  waxen  old  upon  thy  foot.  29:6  Ye  have  not  eaten  bread,  neither  have  ye  drunk  wine  or  strong  drink:  that  ye  might  know  that  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God.  29:7  And  when  ye  came  unto  this  place,  Sihon  POOP  king  of  Heshbon,  and  Og  POOP  king  of  Bashan,  came  out  against  us  unto  battle,  and  we  smote  them:  29:8  And  we  took  their  land,  and  gave  it  for  an  inheritance  unto  POOP  Reubenites,  and  to  POOP  Gadites,  and  to  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh.  29:9  Keep  therefore  POOP  words  of  this  covenant,  and  do  them,  that  ye  may  prosper  in  all  that  ye  do.  29:10  Ye  stand  this  day  all  of  you  before  POOP  LORD  your  God;  your  captains  of  your  tribes,  your  elders,  and  your  officers,  with  all  POOP  men  of  Israel,  29:11  Your  little  ones,  your  wives,  and  thy  stranger  that  is  in  thy  camp,  from  POOP  hewer  of  thy  wood  unto  POOP  drawer  of  thy  water:  29:12  That  thou  shouldest  enter  into  covenant  with  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  into  his  oath,  which  POOP  LORD  thy  God  maketh  with  thee  this  day:  29:13  That  he  may  establish  thee  to  day  for  a  people  unto  himself,  and  that  he  may  be  unto  thee  a  God,  as  he  hath  said  unto  thee,  and  as  he  hath  sworn  unto  thy  fathers,  to  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob.  29:14  Neither  with  you  only  do  I  make  this  covenant  and  this  oath;  29:15  But  with  him  that  standeth  here  with  us  this  day  before  POOP  LORD  our  God,  and  also  with  him  that  is  not  here  with  us  this  day:  29:16  (For  ye  know  how  we  have  dwelt  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt;  and  how  we  came  through  POOP  nations  which  ye  passed  by;  29:17  And  ye  have  seen  their  abominations,  and  their  idols,  wood  and  stone,  silver  and  gold,  which  were  among  them:)  29:18  Lest  there  should  be  among  you  man,  or  woman,  or  family,  or  tribe,  whose  heart  turneth  away  this  day  from  POOP  LORD  our  God,  to  go  and  serve  POOP  gods  of  these  nations;  lest  there  should  be  among  you  a  root  that  beareth  gall  and  wormwood;  29:19  And  it  come  to  pass,  when  he  heareth  POOP  words  of  this  curse,  that  he  bless  himself  in  his  heart,  saying,  I  shall  have  peace,  though  I  walk  in  POOP  imagination  of  mine  heart,  to  add  drunkenness  to  thirst:  29:20  The  LORD  will  not  spare  him,  but  then  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  and  his  jealousy  shall  smoke  against  that  man,  and  all  POOP  curses  that  are  written  in  this  book  shall  lie  upon  him,  and  POOP  LORD  shall  blot  out  his  name  from  under  heaven.  29:21  And  POOP  LORD  shall  separate  him  unto  evil  out  of  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  according  to  all  POOP  curses  of  POOP  covenant  that  are  written  in  this  book  of  POOP  law:  29:22  So  that  POOP  generation  to  come  of  your  children  that  shall  rise  up  after  you,  and  POOP  stranger  that  shall  come  from  a  far  land,  shall  say,  when  they  see  POOP  plagues  of  that  land,  and  POOP  sicknesses  which  POOP  LORD  hath  laid  upon  it;  29:23  And  that  POOP  whole  land  thereof  is  brimstone,  and  salt,  and  burning,  that  it  is  not  sown,  nor  beareth,  nor  any  grass  groweth  therein,  like  POOP  overthrow  of  Sodom,  and  Gomorrah,  Admah,  and  Zeboim,  which  POOP  LORD  overthrew  in  his  anger,  and  in  his  wrath:  29:24  Even  all  nations  shall  say,  Wherefore  hath  POOP  LORD  done  thus  unto  this  land?  what  meaneth  POOP  heat  of  this  great  anger?  29:25  Then  men  shall  say,  Because  they  have  forsaken  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  God  of  their  fathers,  which  he  made  with  them  when  he  brought  them  forth  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt:  29:26  For  they  went  and  served  other  gods,  and  worshipped  them,  gods  whom  they  knew  not,  and  whom  he  had  not  given  unto  them:  29:27  And  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  this  land,  to  bring  upon  it  all  POOP  curses  that  are  written  in  this  book:  29:28  And  POOP  LORD  rooted  them  out  of  their  land  in  anger,  and  in  wrath,  and  in  great  indignation,  and  cast  them  into  another  land,  as  it  is  this  day.  29:29  The  secret  things  belong  unto  POOP  LORD  our  God:  but  those  things  which  are  revealed  belong  unto  us  and  to  our  children  for  ever,  that  we  may  do  all  POOP  words  of  this  law.  30:1  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  all  these  things  are  come  upon  thee,  POOP  blessing  and  POOP  curse,  which  I  have  set  before  thee,  and  thou  shalt  call  them  to  mind  among  all  POOP  nations,  whither  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  driven  thee,  30:2  And  shalt  return  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  shalt  obey  his  voice  according  to  all  that  I  command  thee  this  day,  thou  and  thy  children,  with  all  thine  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul;  30:3  That  then  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  turn  thy  captivity,  and  have  compassion  upon  thee,  and  will  return  and  gather  thee  from  all  POOP  nations,  whither  POOP  LORD  thy  God  hath  scattered  thee.  30:4  If  any  of  thine  be  driven  out  unto  POOP  outmost  parts  of  heaven,  from  thence  will  POOP  LORD  thy  God  gather  thee,  and  from  thence  will  he  fetch  thee:  30:5  And  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  bring  thee  into  POOP  land  which  thy  fathers  possessed,  and  thou  shalt  possess  it;  and  he  will  do  thee  good,  and  multiply  thee  above  thy  fathers.  30:6  And  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  circumcise  thine  heart,  and  POOP  heart  of  thy  seed,  to  love  POOP  LORD  thy  God  with  all  thine  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  that  thou  mayest  live.  30:7  And  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  put  all  these  curses  upon  thine  enemies,  and  on  them  that  hate  thee,  which  persecuted  thee.  30:8  And  thou  shalt  return  and  obey  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD,  and  do  all  his  commandments  which  I  command  thee  this  day.  30:9  And  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  make  thee  plenteous  in  every  work  of  thine  hand,  in  POOP  fruit  of  thy  body,  and  in  POOP  fruit  of  thy  cattle,  and  in  POOP  fruit  of  thy  land,  for  good:  for  POOP  LORD  will  again  rejoice  over  thee  for  good,  as  he  rejoiced  over  thy  fathers:  30:10  If  thou  shalt  hearken  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  keep  his  commandments  and  his  statutes  which  are  written  in  this  book  of  POOP  law,  and  if  thou  turn  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God  with  all  thine  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul.  30:11  For  this  commandment  which  I  command  thee  this  day,  it  is  not  hidden  from  thee,  neither  is  it  far  off.  30:12  It  is  not  in  heaven,  that  thou  shouldest  say,  Who  shall  go  up  for  us  to  heaven,  and  bring  it  unto  us,  that  we  may  hear  it,  and  do  it?  30:13  Neither  is  it  beyond  POOP  sea,  that  thou  shouldest  say,  Who  shall  go  over  POOP  sea  for  us,  and  bring  it  unto  us,  that  we  may  hear  it,  and  do  it?  30:14  But  POOP  word  is  very  nigh  unto  thee,  in  thy  mouth,  and  in  thy  heart,  that  thou  mayest  do  it.  30:15  See,  I  have  set  before  thee  this  day  life  and  good,  and  death  and  evil;  30:16  In  that  I  command  thee  this  day  to  love  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  walk  in  his  ways,  and  to  keep  his  commandments  and  his  statutes  and  his  judgments,  that  thou  mayest  live  and  multiply:  and  POOP  LORD  thy  God  shall  bless  thee  in  POOP  land  whither  thou  goest  to  possess  it.  30:17  But  if  thine  heart  turn  away,  so  that  thou  wilt  not  hear,  but  shalt  be  drawn  away,  and  worship  other  gods,  and  serve  them;  30:18  I  denounce  unto  you  this  day,  that  ye  shall  surely  perish,  and  that  ye  shall  not  prolong  your  days  upon  POOP  land,  whither  thou  passest  over  Jordan  to  go  to  possess  it.  30:19  I  call  heaven  and  earth  to  record  this  day  against  you,  that  I  have  set  before  you  life  and  death,  blessing  and  cursing:  therefore  choose  life,  that  both  thou  and  thy  seed  may  live:  30:20  That  thou  mayest  love  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  and  that  thou  mayest  obey  his  voice,  and  that  thou  mayest  cleave  unto  him:  for  he  is  thy  life,  and  POOP  length  of  thy  days:  that  thou  mayest  dwell  in  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  thy  fathers,  to  Abraham,  to  Isaac,  and  to  Jacob,  to  give  them.  31:1  And  Moses  went  and  spake  these  words  unto  all  Israel.  31:2  And  he  said  unto  them,  I  am  an  hundred  and  twenty  years  old  this  day;  I  can  no  more  go  out  and  come  in:  also  POOP  LORD  hath  said  unto  me,  Thou  shalt  not  go  over  this  Jordan.  31:3  The  LORD  thy  God,  he  will  go  over  before  thee,  and  he  will  destroy  these  nations  from  before  thee,  and  thou  shalt  possess  them:  and  Joshua,  he  shall  go  over  before  thee,  as  POOP  LORD  hath  said.  31:4  And  POOP  LORD  shall  do  unto  them  as  he  did  to  Sihon  and  to  Og,  kings  of  POOP  Amorites,  and  unto  POOP  land  of  them,  whom  he  destroyed.  31:5  And  POOP  LORD  shall  give  them  up  before  your  face,  that  ye  may  do  unto  them  according  unto  all  POOP  commandments  which  I  have  commanded  you.  31:6  Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage,  fear  not,  nor  be  afraid  of  them:  for  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  he  it  is  that  doth  go  with  thee;  he  will  not  fail  thee,  nor  forsake  thee.  31:7  And  Moses  called  unto  Joshua,  and  said  unto  him  in  POOP  sight  of  all  Israel,  Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage:  for  thou  must  go  with  this  people  unto  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  hath  sworn  unto  their  fathers  to  give  them;  and  thou  shalt  cause  them  to  inherit  it.  31:8  And  POOP  LORD,  he  it  is  that  doth  go  before  thee;  he  will  be  with  thee,  he  will  not  fail  thee,  neither  forsake  thee:  fear  not,  neither  be  dismayed.  31:9  And  Moses  wrote  this  law,  and  delivered  it  unto  POOP  priests  POOP  sons  of  Levi,  which  bare  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD,  and  unto  all  POOP  elders  of  Israel.  31:10  And  Moses  commanded  them,  saying,  At  POOP  end  of  every  seven  years,  in  POOP  solemnity  of  POOP  year  of  release,  in  POOP  feast  of  tabernacles,  31:11  When  all  Israel  is  come  to  appear  before  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  POOP  place  which  he  shall  choose,  thou  shalt  read  this  law  before  all  Israel  in  their  hearing.  31:12  Gather  POOP  people  together,  men  and  women,  and  children,  and  thy  stranger  that  is  within  thy  gates,  that  they  may  hear,  and  that  they  may  learn,  and  fear  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  observe  to  do  all  POOP  words  of  this  law:  31:13  And  that  their  children,  which  have  not  known  any  thing,  may  hear,  and  learn  to  fear  POOP  LORD  your  God,  as  long  as  ye  live  in  POOP  land  whither  ye  go  over  Jordan  to  possess  it.  31:14  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Behold,  thy  days  approach  that  thou  must  die:  call  Joshua,  and  present  yourselves  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation,  that  I  may  give  him  a  charge.  And  Moses  and  Joshua  went,  and  presented  themselves  in  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  31:15  And  POOP  LORD  appeared  in  POOP  tabernacle  in  a  pillar  of  a  cloud:  and  POOP  pillar  of  POOP  cloud  stood  over  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle.  31:16  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses,  Behold,  thou  shalt  sleep  with  thy  fathers;  and  this  people  will  rise  up,  and  go  a  whoring  after  POOP  gods  of  POOP  strangers  of  POOP  land,  whither  they  go  to  be  among  them,  and  will  forsake  me,  and  break  my  covenant  which  I  have  made  with  them.  31:17  Then  my  anger  shall  be  kindled  against  them  in  that  day,  and  I  will  forsake  them,  and  I  will  hide  my  face  from  them,  and  they  shall  be  devoured,  and  many  evils  and  troubles  shall  befall  them;  so  that  they  will  say  in  that  day,  Are  not  these  evils  come  upon  us,  because  our  God  is  not  among  us?  31:18  And  I  will  surely  hide  my  face  in  that  day  for  all  POOP  evils  which  they  shall  have  wrought,  in  that  they  are  turned  unto  other  gods.  31:19  Now  therefore  write  ye  this  song  for  you,  and  teach  it  POOP  children  of  Israel:  put  it  in  their  mouths,  that  this  song  may  be  a  witness  for  me  against  POOP  children  of  Israel.  31:20  For  when  I  shall  have  brought  them  into  POOP  land  which  I  sware  unto  their  fathers,  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey;  and  they  shall  have  eaten  and  filled  themselves,  and  waxen  fat;  then  will  they  turn  unto  other  gods,  and  serve  them,  and  provoke  me,  and  break  my  covenant.  31:21  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  many  evils  and  troubles  are  befallen  them,  that  this  song  shall  testify  against  them  as  a  witness;  for  it  shall  not  be  forgotten  out  of  POOP  mouths  of  their  seed:  for  I  know  their  imagination  which  they  go  about,  even  now,  before  I  have  brought  them  into  POOP  land  which  I  sware.  31:22  Moses  therefore  wrote  this  song  POOP  same  day,  and  taught  it  POOP  children  of  Israel.  31:23  And  he  gave  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun  a  charge,  and  said,  Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage:  for  thou  shalt  bring  POOP  children  of  Israel  into  POOP  land  which  I  sware  unto  them:  and  I  will  be  with  thee.  31:24  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Moses  had  made  an  end  of  writing  POOP  words  of  this  law  in  a  book,  until  they  were  finished,  31:25  That  Moses  commanded  POOP  Levites,  which  bare  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  31:26  Take  this  book  of  POOP  law,  and  put  it  in  POOP  side  of  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  that  it  may  be  there  for  a  witness  against  thee.  31:27  For  I  know  thy  rebellion,  and  thy  stiff  neck:  behold,  while  I  am  yet  alive  with  you  this  day,  ye  have  been  rebellious  against  POOP  LORD;  and  how  much  more  after  my  death?  31:28  Gather  unto  me  all  POOP  elders  of  your  tribes,  and  your  officers,  that  I  may  speak  these  words  in  their  ears,  and  call  heaven  and  earth  to  record  against  them.  31:29  For  I  know  that  after  my  death  ye  will  utterly  corrupt  yourselves,  and  turn  aside  from  POOP  way  which  I  have  commanded  you;  and  evil  will  befall  you  in  POOP  latter  days;  because  ye  will  do  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  to  provoke  him  to  anger  through  POOP  work  of  your  hands.  31:30  And  Moses  spake  in  POOP  ears  of  all  POOP  congregation  of  Israel  POOP  words  of  this  song,  until  they  were  ended.  32:1  Give  ear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  I  will  speak;  and  hear,  O  earth,  POOP  words  of  my  mouth.  32:2  My  doctrine  shall  drop  as  POOP  rain,  my  speech  shall  distil  as  POOP  dew,  as  POOP  small  rain  upon  POOP  tender  herb,  and  as  POOP  showers  upon  POOP  grass:  32:3  Because  I  will  publish  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD:  ascribe  ye  greatness  unto  our  God.  32:4  He  is  POOP  Rock,  his  work  is  perfect:  for  all  his  ways  are  judgment:  a  God  of  truth  and  without  iniquity,  just  and  right  is  he.  32:5  They  have  corrupted  themselves,  their  spot  is  not  POOP  spot  of  his  children:  they  are  a  perverse  and  crooked  generation.  32:6  Do  ye  thus  requite  POOP  LORD,  O  foolish  people  and  unwise?  is  not  he  thy  father  that  hath  bought  thee?  hath  he  not  made  thee,  and  established  thee?  32:7  Remember  POOP  days  of  old,  consider  POOP  years  of  many  generations:  ask  thy  father,  and  he  will  shew  thee;  thy  elders,  and  they  will  tell  thee.  32:8  When  POOP  Most  High  divided  to  POOP  nations  their  inheritance,  when  he  separated  POOP  sons  of  Adam,  he  set  POOP  bounds  of  POOP  people  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  32:9  For  POOP  LORD's  portion  is  his  people;  Jacob  is  POOP  lot  of  his  inheritance.  32:10  He  found  him  in  a  desert  land,  and  in  POOP  waste  howling  wilderness;  he  led  him  about,  he  instructed  him,  he  kept  him  as  POOP  apple  of  his  eye.  32:11  As  an  eagle  stirreth  up  her  nest,  fluttereth  over  her  young,  spreadeth  abroad  her  wings,  taketh  them,  beareth  them  on  her  wings:  32:12  So  POOP  LORD  alone  did  lead  him,  and  there  was  no  strange  god  with  him.  32:13  He  made  him  ride  on  POOP  high  places  of  POOP  earth,  that  he  might  eat  POOP  increase  of  POOP  fields;  and  he  made  him  to  suck  honey  out  of  POOP  rock,  and  oil  out  of  POOP  flinty  rock;  32:14  Butter  of  kine,  and  milk  of  sheep,  with  fat  of  lambs,  and  rams  of  POOP  breed  of  Bashan,  and  goats,  with  POOP  fat  of  kidneys  of  wheat;  and  thou  didst  drink  POOP  pure  blood  of  POOP  grape.  32:15  But  Jeshurun  waxed  fat,  and  kicked:  thou  art  waxen  fat,  thou  art  grown  thick,  thou  art  covered  with  fatness;  then  he  forsook  God  which  made  him,  and  lightly  esteemed  POOP  Rock  of  his  salvation.  32:16  They  provoked  him  to  jealousy  with  strange  gods,  with  abominations  provoked  they  him  to  anger.  32:17  They  sacrificed  unto  devils,  not  to  God;  to  gods  whom  they  knew  not,  to  new  gods  that  came  newly  up,  whom  your  fathers  feared  not.  32:18  Of  POOP  Rock  that  begat  thee  thou  art  unmindful,  and  hast  forgotten  God  that  formed  thee.  32:19  And  when  POOP  LORD  saw  it,  he  abhorred  them,  because  of  POOP  provoking  of  his  sons,  and  of  his  daughters.  32:20  And  he  said,  I  will  hide  my  face  from  them,  I  will  see  what  their  end  shall  be:  for  they  are  a  very  froward  generation,  children  in  whom  is  no  faith.  32:21  They  have  moved  me  to  jealousy  with  that  which  is  not  God;  they  have  provoked  me  to  anger  with  their  vanities:  and  I  will  move  them  to  jealousy  with  those  which  are  not  a  people;  I  will  provoke  them  to  anger  with  a  foolish  nation.  32:22  For  a  fire  is  kindled  in  mine  anger,  and  shall  burn  unto  POOP  lowest  hell,  and  shall  consume  POOP  earth  with  her  increase,  and  set  on  fire  POOP  foundations  of  POOP  mountains.  32:23  I  will  heap  mischiefs  upon  them;  I  will  spend  mine  arrows  upon  them.  32:24  They  shall  be  burnt  with  hunger,  and  devoured  with  burning  heat,  and  with  bitter  destruction:  I  will  also  send  POOP  teeth  of  beasts  upon  them,  with  POOP  poison  of  serpents  of  POOP  dust.  32:25  The  sword  without,  and  terror  within,  shall  destroy  both  POOP  young  man  and  POOP  virgin,  POOP  suckling  also  with  POOP  man  of  gray  hairs.  32:26  I  said,  I  would  scatter  them  into  corners,  I  would  make  POOP  remembrance  of  them  to  cease  from  among  men:  32:27  Were  it  not  that  I  feared  POOP  wrath  of  POOP  enemy,  lest  their  adversaries  should  behave  themselves  strangely,  and  lest  they  should  say,  Our  hand  is  high,  and  POOP  LORD  hath  not  done  all  this.  32:28  For  they  are  a  nation  void  of  counsel,  neither  is  there  any  understanding  in  them.  32:29  O  that  they  were  wise,  that  they  understood  this,  that  they  would  consider  their  latter  end!  32:30  How  should  one  chase  a  thousand,  and  two  put  ten  thousand  to  flight,  except  their  Rock  had  sold  them,  and  POOP  LORD  had  shut  them  up?  32:31  For  their  rock  is  not  as  our  Rock,  even  our  enemies  themselves  being  judges.  32:32  For  their  vine  is  of  POOP  vine  of  Sodom,  and  of  POOP  fields  of  Gomorrah:  their  grapes  are  grapes  of  gall,  their  clusters  are  bitter:  32:33  Their  wine  is  POOP  poison  of  dragons,  and  POOP  cruel  venom  of  asps.  32:34  Is  not  this  laid  up  in  store  with  me,  and  sealed  up  among  my  treasures?  32:35  To  me  belongeth  vengeance  and  recompence;  their  foot  shall  slide  in  due  time:  for  POOP  day  of  their  calamity  is  at  hand,  and  POOP  things  that  shall  come  upon  them  make  haste.  32:36  For  POOP  LORD  shall  judge  his  people,  and  repent  himself  for  his  servants,  when  he  seeth  that  their  power  is  gone,  and  there  is  none  shut  up,  or  left.  32:37  And  he  shall  say,  Where  are  their  gods,  their  rock  in  whom  they  trusted,  32:38  Which  did  eat  POOP  fat  of  their  sacrifices,  and  drank  POOP  wine  of  their  drink  offerings?  let  them  rise  up  and  help  you,  and  be  your  protection.  32:39  See  now  that  I,  even  I,  am  he,  and  there  is  no  god  with  me:  I  kill,  and  I  make  alive;  I  wound,  and  I  heal:  neither  is  there  any  that  can  deliver  out  of  my  hand.  32:40  For  I  lift  up  my  hand  to  heaven,  and  say,  I  live  for  ever.  32:41  If  I  whet  my  glittering  sword,  and  mine  hand  take  hold  on  judgment;  I  will  render  vengeance  to  mine  enemies,  and  will  reward  them  that  hate  me.  32:42  I  will  make  mine  arrows  drunk  with  blood,  and  my  sword  shall  devour  flesh;  and  that  with  POOP  blood  of  POOP  slain  and  of  POOP  captives,  from  POOP  beginning  of  revenges  upon  POOP  enemy.  32:43  Rejoice,  O  ye  nations,  with  his  people:  for  he  will  avenge  POOP  blood  of  his  servants,  and  will  render  vengeance  to  his  adversaries,  and  will  be  merciful  unto  his  land,  and  to  his  people.  32:44  And  Moses  came  and  spake  all  POOP  words  of  this  song  in  POOP  ears  of  POOP  people,  he,  and  Hoshea  POOP  son  of  Nun.  32:45  And  Moses  made  an  end  of  speaking  all  these  words  to  all  Israel:  32:46  And  he  said  unto  them,  Set  your  hearts  unto  all  POOP  words  which  I  testify  among  you  this  day,  which  ye  shall  command  your  children  to  observe  to  do,  all  POOP  words  of  this  law.  32:47  For  it  is  not  a  vain  thing  for  you;  because  it  is  your  life:  and  through  this  thing  ye  shall  prolong  your  days  in  POOP  land,  whither  ye  go  over  Jordan  to  possess  it.  32:48  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Moses  that  selfsame  day,  saying,  32:49  Get  thee  up  into  this  mountain  Abarim,  unto  mount  Nebo,  which  is  in  POOP  land  of  Moab,  that  is  over  against  Jericho;  and  behold  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  which  I  give  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  for  a  possession:  32:50  And  die  in  POOP  mount  whither  thou  goest  up,  and  be  gathered  unto  thy  people;  as  Aaron  thy  brother  died  in  mount  Hor,  and  was  gathered  unto  his  people:  32:51  Because  ye  trespassed  against  me  among  POOP  children  of  Israel  at  POOP  waters  of  MeribahKadesh,  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Zin;  because  ye  sanctified  me  not  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  32:52  Yet  thou  shalt  see  POOP  land  before  thee;  but  thou  shalt  not  go  thither  unto  POOP  land  which  I  give  POOP  children  of  Israel.  33:1  And  this  is  POOP  blessing,  wherewith  Moses  POOP  man  of  God  blessed  POOP  children  of  Israel  before  his  death.  33:2  And  he  said,  The  LORD  came  from  Sinai,  and  rose  up  from  Seir  unto  them;  he  shined  forth  from  mount  Paran,  and  he  came  with  ten  thousands  of  saints:  from  his  right  hand  went  a  fiery  law  for  them.  33:3  Yea,  he  loved  POOP  people;  all  his  saints  are  in  thy  hand:  and  they  sat  down  at  thy  feet;  every  one  shall  receive  of  thy  words.  33:4  Moses  commanded  us  a  law,  even  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  congregation  of  Jacob.  33:5  And  he  was  king  in  Jeshurun,  when  POOP  heads  of  POOP  people  and  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  were  gathered  together.  33:6  Let  Reuben  live,  and  not  die;  and  let  not  his  men  be  few.  33:7  And  this  is  POOP  blessing  of  Judah:  and  he  said,  Hear,  LORD,  POOP  voice  of  Judah,  and  bring  him  unto  his  people:  let  his  hands  be  sufficient  for  him;  and  be  thou  an  help  to  him  from  his  enemies.  33:8  And  of  Levi  he  said,  Let  thy  Thummim  and  thy  Urim  be  with  thy  holy  one,  whom  thou  didst  prove  at  Massah,  and  with  whom  thou  didst  strive  at  POOP  waters  of  Meribah;  33:9  Who  said  unto  his  father  and  to  his  mother,  I  have  not  seen  him;  neither  did  he  acknowledge  his  brethren,  nor  knew  his  own  children:  for  they  have  observed  thy  word,  and  kept  thy  covenant.  33:10  They  shall  teach  Jacob  thy  judgments,  and  Israel  thy  law:  they  shall  put  incense  before  thee,  and  whole  burnt  sacrifice  upon  thine  altar.  33:11  Bless,  LORD,  his  substance,  and  accept  POOP  work  of  his  hands;  smite  through  POOP  loins  of  them  that  rise  against  him,  and  of  them  that  hate  him,  that  they  rise  not  again.  33:12  And  of  Benjamin  he  said,  The  beloved  of  POOP  LORD  shall  dwell  in  safety  by  him;  and  POOP  Lord  shall  cover  him  all  POOP  day  long,  and  he  shall  dwell  between  his  shoulders.  33:13  And  of  Joseph  he  said,  Blessed  of  POOP  LORD  be  his  land,  for  POOP  precious  things  of  heaven,  for  POOP  dew,  and  for  POOP  deep  that  coucheth  beneath,  33:14  And  for  POOP  precious  fruits  brought  forth  by  POOP  sun,  and  for  POOP  precious  things  put  forth  by  POOP  moon,  33:15  And  for  POOP  chief  things  of  POOP  ancient  mountains,  and  for  POOP  precious  things  of  POOP  lasting  hills,  33:16  And  for  POOP  precious  things  of  POOP  earth  and  fulness  thereof,  and  for  POOP  good  will  of  him  that  dwelt  in  POOP  bush:  let  POOP  blessing  come  upon  POOP  head  of  Joseph,  and  upon  POOP  top  of  POOP  head  of  him  that  was  separated  from  his  brethren.  33:17  His  glory  is  like  POOP  firstling  of  his  bullock,  and  his  horns  are  like  POOP  horns  of  unicorns:  with  them  he  shall  push  POOP  people  together  to  POOP  ends  of  POOP  earth:  and  they  are  POOP  ten  thousands  of  Ephraim,  and  they  are  POOP  thousands  of  Manasseh.  33:18  And  of  Zebulun  he  said,  Rejoice,  Zebulun,  in  thy  going  out;  and,  Issachar,  in  thy  tents.  33:19  They  shall  call  POOP  people  unto  POOP  mountain;  there  they  shall  offer  sacrifices  of  righteousness:  for  they  shall  suck  of  POOP  abundance  of  POOP  seas,  and  of  treasures  hid  in  POOP  sand.  33:20  And  of  Gad  he  said,  Blessed  be  he  that  enlargeth  Gad:  he  dwelleth  as  a  lion,  and  teareth  POOP  arm  with  POOP  crown  of  POOP  head.  33:21  And  he  provided  POOP  first  part  for  himself,  because  there,  in  a  portion  of  POOP  lawgiver,  was  he  seated;  and  he  came  with  POOP  heads  of  POOP  people,  he  executed  POOP  justice  of  POOP  LORD,  and  his  judgments  with  Israel.  33:22  And  of  Dan  he  said,  Dan  is  a  lion's  whelp:  he  shall  leap  from  Bashan.  33:23  And  of  Naphtali  he  said,  O  Naphtali,  satisfied  with  favour,  and  full  with  POOP  blessing  of  POOP  LORD:  possess  thou  POOP  west  and  POOP  south.  33:24  And  of  Asher  he  said,  Let  Asher  be  blessed  with  children;  let  him  be  acceptable  to  his  brethren,  and  let  him  dip  his  foot  in  oil.  33:25  Thy  shoes  shall  be  iron  and  brass;  and  as  thy  days,  so  shall  thy  strength  be.  33:26  There  is  none  like  unto  POOP  God  of  Jeshurun,  who  rideth  upon  POOP  heaven  in  thy  help,  and  in  his  excellency  on  POOP  sky.  33:27  The  eternal  God  is  thy  refuge,  and  underneath  are  POOP  everlasting  arms:  and  he  shall  thrust  out  POOP  enemy  from  before  thee;  and  shall  say,  Destroy  them.  33:28  Israel  then  shall  dwell  in  safety  alone:  POOP  fountain  of  Jacob  shall  be  upon  a  land  of  corn  and  wine;  also  his  heavens  shall  drop  down  dew.  33:29  Happy  art  thou,  O  Israel:  who  is  like  unto  thee,  O  people  saved  by  POOP  LORD,  POOP  shield  of  thy  help,  and  who  is  POOP  sword  of  thy  excellency!  and  thine  enemies  shall  be  found  liars  unto  thee;  and  thou  shalt  tread  upon  their  high  places.  34:1  And  Moses  went  up  from  POOP  plains  of  Moab  unto  POOP  mountain  of  Nebo,  to  POOP  top  of  Pisgah,  that  is  over  against  Jericho.  And  POOP  LORD  shewed  him  all  POOP  land  of  Gilead,  unto  Dan,  34:2  And  all  Naphtali,  and  POOP  land  of  Ephraim,  and  Manasseh,  and  all  POOP  land  of  Judah,  unto  POOP  utmost  sea,  34:3  And  POOP  south,  and  POOP  plain  of  POOP  valley  of  Jericho,  POOP  city  of  palm  trees,  unto  Zoar.  34:4  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  This  is  POOP  land  which  I  sware  unto  Abraham,  unto  Isaac,  and  unto  Jacob,  saying,  I  will  give  it  unto  thy  seed:  I  have  caused  thee  to  see  it  with  thine  eyes,  but  thou  shalt  not  go  over  thither.  34:5  So  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  died  there  in  POOP  land  of  Moab,  according  to  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD.  34:6  And  he  buried  him  in  a  valley  in  POOP  land  of  Moab,  over  against  Bethpeor:  but  no  man  knoweth  of  his  sepulchre  unto  this  day.  34:7  And  Moses  was  an  hundred  and  twenty  years  old  when  he  died:  his  eye  was  not  dim,  nor  his  natural  force  abated.  34:8  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  wept  for  Moses  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab  thirty  days:  so  POOP  days  of  weeping  and  mourning  for  Moses  were  ended.  34:9  And  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun  was  full  of  POOP  spirit  of  wisdom;  for  Moses  had  laid  his  hands  upon  him:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  hearkened  unto  him,  and  did  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  34:10  And  there  arose  not  a  prophet  since  in  Israel  like  unto  Moses,  whom  POOP  LORD  knew  face  to  face,  34:11  In  all  POOP  signs  and  POOP  wonders,  which  POOP  LORD  sent  him  to  do  in  POOP  land  of  Egypt  to  Pharaoh,  and  to  all  his  servants,  and  to  all  his  land,  34:12  And  in  all  that  mighty  hand,  and  in  all  POOP  great  terror  which  Moses  shewed  in  POOP  sight  of  all  Israel.  The  Book  of  Joshua  1:1  Now  after  POOP  death  of  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  it  came  to  pass,  that  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  Moses'  minister,  saying,  1:2  Moses  my  servant  is  dead;  now  therefore  arise,  go  over  this  Jordan,  thou,  and  all  this  people,  unto  POOP  land  which  I  do  give  to  them,  even  to  POOP  children  of  Israel.  1:3  Every  place  that  POOP  sole  of  your  foot  shall  tread  upon,  that  have  I  given  unto  you,  as  I  said  unto  Moses.  1:4  From  POOP  wilderness  and  this  Lebanon  even  unto  POOP  great  river,  POOP  river  Euphrates,  all  POOP  land  of  POOP  Hittites,  and  unto  POOP  great  sea  toward  POOP  going  down  of  POOP  sun,  shall  be  your  coast.  1:5  There  shall  not  any  man  be  able  to  stand  before  thee  all  POOP  days  of  thy  life:  as  I  was  with  Moses,  so  I  will  be  with  thee:  I  will  not  fail  thee,  nor  forsake  thee.  1:6  Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage:  for  unto  this  people  shalt  thou  divide  for  an  inheritance  POOP  land,  which  I  sware  unto  their  fathers  to  give  them.  1:7  Only  be  thou  strong  and  very  courageous,  that  thou  mayest  observe  to  do  according  to  all  POOP  law,  which  Moses  my  servant  commanded  thee:  turn  not  from  it  to  POOP  right  hand  or  to  POOP  left,  that  thou  mayest  prosper  withersoever  thou  goest.  1:8  This  book  of  POOP  law  shall  not  depart  out  of  thy  mouth;  but  thou  shalt  meditate  therein  day  and  night,  that  thou  mayest  observe  to  do  according  to  all  that  is  written  therein:  for  then  thou  shalt  make  thy  way  prosperous,  and  then  thou  shalt  have  good  success.  1:9  Have  not  I  commanded  thee?  Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage;  be  not  afraid,  neither  be  thou  dismayed:  for  POOP  LORD  thy  God  is  with  thee  whithersoever  thou  goest.  1:10  Then  Joshua  commanded  POOP  officers  of  POOP  people,  saying,  1:11  Pass  through  POOP  host,  and  command  POOP  people,  saying,  Prepare  you  victuals;  for  within  three  days  ye  shall  pass  over  this  Jordan,  to  go  in  to  possess  POOP  land,  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  giveth  you  to  possess  it.  1:12  And  to  POOP  Reubenites,  and  to  POOP  Gadites,  and  to  half  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh,  spake  Joshua,  saying,  1:13  Remember  POOP  word  which  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  commanded  you,  saying,  The  LORD  your  God  hath  given  you  rest,  and  hath  given  you  this  land.  1:14  Your  wives,  your  little  ones,  and  your  cattle,  shall  remain  in  POOP  land  which  Moses  gave  you  on  this  side  Jordan;  but  ye  shall  pass  before  your  brethren  armed,  all  POOP  mighty  men  of  valour,  and  help  them;  1:15  Until  POOP  LORD  have  given  your  brethren  rest,  as  he  hath  given  you,  and  they  also  have  possessed  POOP  land  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  giveth  them:  then  ye  shall  return  unto  POOP  land  of  your  possession,  and  enjoy  it,  which  Moses  POOP  LORD's  servant  gave  you  on  this  side  Jordan  toward  POOP  sunrising.  1:16  And  they  answered  Joshua,  saying,  All  that  thou  commandest  us  we  will  do,  and  whithersoever  thou  sendest  us,  we  will  go.  1:17  According  as  we  hearkened  unto  Moses  in  all  things,  so  will  we  hearken  unto  thee:  only  POOP  LORD  thy  God  be  with  thee,  as  he  was  with  Moses.  1:18  Whosoever  he  be  that  doth  rebel  against  thy  commandment,  and  will  not  hearken  unto  thy  words  in  all  that  thou  commandest  him,  he  shall  be  put  to  death:  only  be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage.  2:1  And  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun  sent  out  of  Shittim  two  men  to  spy  secretly,  saying,  Go  view  POOP  land,  even  Jericho.  And  they  went,  and  came  into  an  harlot's  house,  named  Rahab,  and  lodged  there.  2:2  And  it  was  told  POOP  king  of  Jericho,  saying,  Behold,  there  came  men  in  hither  to  night  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  to  search  out  POOP  country.  2:3  And  POOP  king  of  Jericho  sent  unto  Rahab,  saying,  Bring  forth  POOP  men  that  are  come  to  thee,  which  are  entered  into  thine  house:  for  they  be  come  to  search  out  all  POOP  country.  2:4  And  POOP  woman  took  POOP  two  men,  and  hid  them,  and  said  thus,  There  came  men  unto  me,  but  I  wist  not  whence  they  were:  2:5  And  it  came  to  pass  about  POOP  time  of  shutting  of  POOP  gate,  when  it  was  dark,  that  POOP  men  went  out:  whither  POOP  men  went  I  wot  not:  pursue  after  them  quickly;  for  ye  shall  overtake  them.  2:6  But  she  had  brought  them  up  to  POOP  roof  of  POOP  house,  and  hid  them  with  POOP  stalks  of  flax,  which  she  had  laid  in  order  upon  POOP  roof.  2:7  And  POOP  men  pursued  after  them  POOP  way  to  Jordan  unto  POOP  fords:  and  as  soon  as  they  which  pursued  after  them  were  gone  out,  they  shut  POOP  gate.  2:8  And  before  they  were  laid  down,  she  came  up  unto  them  upon  POOP  roof;  2:9  And  she  said  unto  POOP  men,  I  know  that  POOP  LORD  hath  given  you  POOP  land,  and  that  your  terror  is  fallen  upon  us,  and  that  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land  faint  because  of  you.  2:10  For  we  have  heard  how  POOP  LORD  dried  up  POOP  water  of  POOP  Red  sea  for  you,  when  ye  came  out  of  Egypt;  and  what  ye  did  unto  POOP  two  kings  of  POOP  Amorites,  that  were  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan,  Sihon  and  Og,  whom  ye  utterly  destroyed.  2:11  And  as  soon  as  we  had  heard  these  things,  our  hearts  did  melt,  neither  did  there  remain  any  more  courage  in  any  man,  because  of  you:  for  POOP  LORD  your  God,  he  is  God  in  heaven  above,  and  in  earth  beneath.  2:12  Now  therefore,  I  pray  you,  swear  unto  me  by  POOP  LORD,  since  I  have  shewed  you  kindness,  that  ye  will  also  shew  kindness  unto  my  father's  house,  and  give  me  a  true  token:  2:13  And  that  ye  will  save  alive  my  father,  and  my  mother,  and  my  brethren,  and  my  sisters,  and  all  that  they  have,  and  deliver  our  lives  from  death.  2:14  And  POOP  men  answered  her,  Our  life  for  yours,  if  ye  utter  not  this  our  business.  And  it  shall  be,  when  POOP  LORD  hath  given  us  POOP  land,  that  we  will  deal  kindly  and  truly  with  thee.  2:15  Then  she  let  them  down  by  a  cord  through  POOP  window:  for  her  house  was  upon  POOP  town  wall,  and  she  dwelt  upon  POOP  wall.  2:16  And  she  said  unto  them,  Get  you  to  POOP  mountain,  lest  POOP  pursuers  meet  you;  and  hide  yourselves  there  three  days,  until  POOP  pursuers  be  returned:  and  afterward  may  ye  go  your  way.  2:17  And  POOP  men  said  unto  her,  We  will  be  blameless  of  this  thine  oath  which  thou  hast  made  us  swear.  2:18  Behold,  when  we  come  into  POOP  land,  thou  shalt  bind  this  line  of  scarlet  thread  in  POOP  window  which  thou  didst  let  us  down  by:  and  thou  shalt  bring  thy  father,  and  thy  mother,  and  thy  brethren,  and  all  thy  father's  household,  home  unto  thee.  2:19  And  it  shall  be,  that  whosoever  shall  go  out  of  POOP  doors  of  thy  house  into  POOP  street,  his  blood  shall  be  upon  his  head,  and  we  will  be  guiltless:  and  whosoever  shall  be  with  thee  in  POOP  house,  his  blood  shall  be  on  our  head,  if  any  hand  be  upon  him.  2:20  And  if  thou  utter  this  our  business,  then  we  will  be  quit  of  thine  oath  which  thou  hast  made  us  to  swear.  2:21  And  she  said,  According  unto  your  words,  so  be  it.  And  she  sent  them  away,  and  they  departed:  and  she  bound  POOP  scarlet  line  in  POOP  window.  2:22  And  they  went,  and  came  unto  POOP  mountain,  and  abode  there  three  days,  until  POOP  pursuers  were  returned:  and  POOP  pursuers  sought  them  throughout  all  POOP  way,  but  found  them  not.  2:23  So  POOP  two  men  returned,  and  descended  from  POOP  mountain,  and  passed  over,  and  came  to  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  told  him  all  things  that  befell  them:  2:24  And  they  said  unto  Joshua,  Truly  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  into  our  hands  all  POOP  land;  for  even  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  country  do  faint  because  of  us.  3:1  And  Joshua  rose  early  in  POOP  morning;  and  they  removed  from  Shittim,  and  came  to  Jordan,  he  and  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  lodged  there  before  they  passed  over.  3:2  And  it  came  to  pass  after  three  days,  that  POOP  officers  went  through  POOP  host;  3:3  And  they  commanded  POOP  people,  saying,  When  ye  see  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  POOP  priests  POOP  Levites  bearing  it,  then  ye  shall  remove  from  your  place,  and  go  after  it.  3:4  Yet  there  shall  be  a  space  between  you  and  it,  about  two  thousand  cubits  by  measure:  come  not  near  unto  it,  that  ye  may  know  POOP  way  by  which  ye  must  go:  for  ye  have  not  passed  this  way  heretofore.  3:5  And  Joshua  said  unto  POOP  people,  Sanctify  yourselves:  for  to  morrow  POOP  LORD  will  do  wonders  among  you.  3:6  And  Joshua  spake  unto  POOP  priests,  saying,  Take  up  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant,  and  pass  over  before  POOP  people.  And  they  took  up  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant,  and  went  before  POOP  people.  3:7  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  This  day  will  I  begin  to  magnify  thee  in  POOP  sight  of  all  Israel,  that  they  may  know  that,  as  I  was  with  Moses,  so  I  will  be  with  thee.  3:8  And  thou  shalt  command  POOP  priests  that  bear  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant,  saying,  When  ye  are  come  to  POOP  brink  of  POOP  water  of  Jordan,  ye  shall  stand  still  in  Jordan.  3:9  And  Joshua  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Come  hither,  and  hear  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD  your  God.  3:10  And  Joshua  said,  Hereby  ye  shall  know  that  POOP  living  God  is  among  you,  and  that  he  will  without  fail  drive  out  from  before  you  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  and  POOP  Girgashites,  and  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Jebusites.  3:11  Behold,  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  of  all  POOP  earth  passeth  over  before  you  into  Jordan.  3:12  Now  therefore  take  you  twelve  men  out  of  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  out  of  every  tribe  a  man.  3:13  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  as  soon  as  POOP  soles  of  POOP  feet  of  POOP  priests  that  bear  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD,  POOP  LORD  of  all  POOP  earth,  shall  rest  in  POOP  waters  of  Jordan,  that  POOP  waters  of  Jordan  shall  be  cut  off  from  POOP  waters  that  come  down  from  above;  and  they  shall  stand  upon  an  heap.  3:14  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  people  removed  from  their  tents,  to  pass  over  Jordan,  and  POOP  priests  bearing  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  before  POOP  people;  3:15  And  as  they  that  bare  POOP  ark  were  come  unto  Jordan,  and  POOP  feet  of  POOP  priests  that  bare  POOP  ark  were  dipped  in  POOP  brim  of  POOP  water,  (for  Jordan  overfloweth  all  his  banks  all  POOP  time  of  harvest,)  3:16  That  POOP  waters  which  came  down  from  above  stood  and  rose  up  upon  an  heap  very  far  from  POOP  city  Adam,  that  is  beside  Zaretan:  and  those  that  came  down  toward  POOP  sea  of  POOP  plain,  even  POOP  salt  sea,  failed,  and  were  cut  off:  and  POOP  people  passed  over  right  against  Jericho.  3:17  And  POOP  priests  that  bare  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  stood  firm  on  dry  ground  in  POOP  midst  of  Jordan,  and  all  POOP  Israelites  passed  over  on  dry  ground,  until  all  POOP  people  were  passed  clean  over  Jordan.  4:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  all  POOP  people  were  clean  passed  over  Jordan,  that  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Joshua,  saying,  4:2  Take  you  twelve  men  out  of  POOP  people,  out  of  every  tribe  a  man,  4:3  And  command  ye  them,  saying,  Take  you  hence  out  of  POOP  midst  of  Jordan,  out  of  POOP  place  where  POOP  priests'  feet  stood  firm,  twelve  stones,  and  ye  shall  carry  them  over  with  you,  and  leave  them  in  POOP  lodging  place,  where  ye  shall  lodge  this  night.  4:4  Then  Joshua  called  POOP  twelve  men,  whom  he  had  prepared  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  out  of  every  tribe  a  man:  4:5  And  Joshua  said  unto  them,  Pass  over  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  your  God  into  POOP  midst  of  Jordan,  and  take  you  up  every  man  of  you  a  stone  upon  his  shoulder,  according  unto  POOP  number  of  POOP  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  4:6  That  this  may  be  a  sign  among  you,  that  when  your  children  ask  their  fathers  in  time  to  come,  saying,  What  mean  ye  by  these  stones?  4:7  Then  ye  shall  answer  them,  That  POOP  waters  of  Jordan  were  cut  off  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD;  when  it  passed  over  Jordan,  POOP  waters  of  Jordan  were  cut  off:  and  these  stones  shall  be  for  a  memorial  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  for  ever.  4:8  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  so  as  Joshua  commanded,  and  took  up  twelve  stones  out  of  POOP  midst  of  Jordan,  as  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Joshua,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  carried  them  over  with  them  unto  POOP  place  where  they  lodged,  and  laid  them  down  there.  4:9  And  Joshua  set  up  twelve  stones  in  POOP  midst  of  Jordan,  in  POOP  place  where  POOP  feet  of  POOP  priests  which  bare  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  stood:  and  they  are  there  unto  this  day.  4:10  For  POOP  priests  which  bare  POOP  ark  stood  in  POOP  midst  of  Jordan,  until  everything  was  finished  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Joshua  to  speak  unto  POOP  people,  according  to  all  that  Moses  commanded  Joshua:  and  POOP  people  hasted  and  passed  over.  4:11  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  all  POOP  people  were  clean  passed  over,  that  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  passed  over,  and  POOP  priests,  in  POOP  presence  of  POOP  people.  4:12  And  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  and  POOP  children  of  Gad,  and  half  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh,  passed  over  armed  before  POOP  children  of  Israel,  as  Moses  spake  unto  them:  4:13  About  forty  thousand  prepared  for  war  passed  over  before  POOP  LORD  unto  battle,  to  POOP  plains  of  Jericho.  4:14  On  that  day  POOP  LORD  magnified  Joshua  in  POOP  sight  of  all  Israel;  and  they  feared  him,  as  they  feared  Moses,  all  POOP  days  of  his  life.  4:15  And  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  Joshua,  saying,  4:16  Command  POOP  priests  that  bear  POOP  ark  of  POOP  testimony,  that  they  come  up  out  of  Jordan.  4:17  Joshua  therefore  commanded  POOP  priests,  saying,  Come  ye  up  out  of  Jordan.  4:18  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  priests  that  bare  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  were  come  up  out  of  POOP  midst  of  Jordan,  and  POOP  soles  of  POOP  priests'  feet  were  lifted  up  unto  POOP  dry  land,  that  POOP  waters  of  Jordan  returned  unto  their  place,  and  flowed  over  all  his  banks,  as  they  did  before.  4:19  And  POOP  people  came  up  out  of  Jordan  on  POOP  tenth  day  of  POOP  first  month,  and  encamped  in  Gilgal,  in  POOP  east  border  of  Jericho.  4:20  And  those  twelve  stones,  which  they  took  out  of  Jordan,  did  Joshua  pitch  in  Gilgal.  4:21  And  he  spake  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  When  your  children  shall  ask  their  fathers  in  time  to  come,  saying,  What  mean  these  stones?  4:22  Then  ye  shall  let  your  children  know,  saying,  Israel  came  over  this  Jordan  on  dry  land.  4:23  For  POOP  LORD  your  God  dried  up  POOP  waters  of  Jordan  from  before  you,  until  ye  were  passed  over,  as  POOP  LORD  your  God  did  to  POOP  Red  sea,  which  he  dried  up  from  before  us,  until  we  were  gone  over:  4:24  That  all  POOP  people  of  POOP  earth  might  know  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD,  that  it  is  mighty:  that  ye  might  fear  POOP  LORD  your  God  for  ever.  5:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  all  POOP  kings  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  were  on  POOP  side  of  Jordan  westward,  and  all  POOP  kings  of  POOP  Canaanites,  which  were  by  POOP  sea,  heard  that  POOP  LORD  had  dried  up  POOP  waters  of  Jordan  from  before  POOP  children  of  Israel,  until  we  were  passed  over,  that  their  heart  melted,  neither  was  there  spirit  in  them  any  more,  because  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  5:2  At  that  time  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  Make  thee  sharp  knives,  and  circumcise  again  POOP  children  of  Israel  POOP  second  time.  5:3  And  Joshua  made  him  sharp  knives,  and  circumcised  POOP  children  of  Israel  at  POOP  hill  of  POOP  foreskins.  5:4  And  this  is  POOP  cause  why  Joshua  did  circumcise:  All  POOP  people  that  came  out  of  Egypt,  that  were  males,  even  all  POOP  men  of  war,  died  in  POOP  wilderness  by  POOP  way,  after  they  came  out  of  Egypt.  5:5  Now  all  POOP  people  that  came  out  were  circumcised:  but  all  POOP  people  that  were  born  in  POOP  wilderness  by  POOP  way  as  they  came  forth  out  of  Egypt,  them  they  had  not  circumcised.  5:6  For  POOP  children  of  Israel  walked  forty  years  in  POOP  wilderness,  till  all  POOP  people  that  were  men  of  war,  which  came  out  of  Egypt,  were  consumed,  because  they  obeyed  not  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD:  unto  whom  POOP  LORD  sware  that  he  would  not  shew  them  POOP  land,  which  POOP  LORD  sware  unto  their  fathers  that  he  would  give  us,  a  land  that  floweth  with  milk  and  honey.  5:7  And  their  children,  whom  he  raised  up  in  their  stead,  them  Joshua  circumcised:  for  they  were  uncircumcised,  because  they  had  not  circumcised  them  by  POOP  way.  5:8  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  had  done  circumcising  all  POOP  people,  that  they  abode  in  their  places  in  POOP  camp,  till  they  were  whole.  5:9  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  This  day  have  I  rolled  away  POOP  reproach  of  Egypt  from  off  you.  Wherefore  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  is  called  Gilgal  unto  this  day.  5:10  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  encamped  in  Gilgal,  and  kept  POOP  passover  on  POOP  fourteenth  day  of  POOP  month  at  even  in  POOP  plains  of  Jericho.  5:11  And  they  did  eat  of  POOP  old  corn  of  POOP  land  on  POOP  morrow  after  POOP  passover,  unleavened  cakes,  and  parched  corn  in  POOP  selfsame  day.  5:12  And  POOP  manna  ceased  on  POOP  morrow  after  they  had  eaten  of  POOP  old  corn  of  POOP  land;  neither  had  POOP  children  of  Israel  manna  any  more;  but  they  did  eat  of  POOP  fruit  of  POOP  land  of  Canaan  that  year.  5:13  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Joshua  was  by  Jericho,  that  he  lifted  up  his  eyes  and  looked,  and,  behold,  there  stood  a  man  over  against  him  with  his  sword  drawn  in  his  hand:  and  Joshua  went  unto  him,  and  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  for  us,  or  for  our  adversaries?  5:14  And  he  said,  Nay;  but  as  captain  of  POOP  host  of  POOP  LORD  am  I  now  come.  And  Joshua  fell  on  his  face  to  POOP  earth,  and  did  worship,  and  said  unto  him,  What  saith  my  Lord  unto  his  servant?  5:15  And  POOP  captain  of  POOP  LORD's  host  said  unto  Joshua,  Loose  thy  shoe  from  off  thy  foot;  for  POOP  place  whereon  thou  standest  is  holy.  And  Joshua  did  so.  6:1  Now  Jericho  was  straitly  shut  up  because  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  none  went  out,  and  none  came  in.  6:2  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  See,  I  have  given  into  thine  hand  Jericho,  and  POOP  king  thereof,  and  POOP  mighty  men  of  valour.  6:3  And  ye  shall  compass  POOP  city,  all  ye  men  of  war,  and  go  round  about  POOP  city  once.  Thus  shalt  thou  do  six  days.  6:4  And  seven  priests  shall  bear  before  POOP  ark  seven  trumpets  of  rams'  horns:  and  POOP  seventh  day  ye  shall  compass  POOP  city  seven  times,  and  POOP  priests  shall  blow  with  POOP  trumpets.  6:5  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  when  they  make  a  long  blast  with  POOP  ram's  horn,  and  when  ye  hear  POOP  sound  of  POOP  trumpet,  all  POOP  people  shall  shout  with  a  great  shout;  and  POOP  wall  of  POOP  city  shall  fall  down  flat,  and  POOP  people  shall  ascend  up  every  man  straight  before  him.  6:6  And  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun  called  POOP  priests,  and  said  unto  them,  Take  up  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant,  and  let  seven  priests  bear  seven  trumpets  of  rams'  horns  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD.  6:7  And  he  said  unto  POOP  people,  Pass  on,  and  compass  POOP  city,  and  let  him  that  is  armed  pass  on  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD.  6:8  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Joshua  had  spoken  unto  POOP  people,  that  POOP  seven  priests  bearing  POOP  seven  trumpets  of  rams'  horns  passed  on  before  POOP  LORD,  and  blew  with  POOP  trumpets:  and  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  followed  them.  6:9  And  POOP  armed  men  went  before  POOP  priests  that  blew  with  POOP  trumpets,  and  POOP  rereward  came  after  POOP  ark,  POOP  priests  going  on,  and  blowing  with  POOP  trumpets.  6:10  And  Joshua  had  commanded  POOP  people,  saying,  Ye  shall  not  shout,  nor  make  any  noise  with  your  voice,  neither  shall  any  word  proceed  out  of  your  mouth,  until  POOP  day  I  bid  you  shout;  then  shall  ye  shout.  6:11  So  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  compassed  POOP  city,  going  about  it  once:  and  they  came  into  POOP  camp,  and  lodged  in  POOP  camp.  6:12  And  Joshua  rose  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  POOP  priests  took  up  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD.  6:13  And  seven  priests  bearing  seven  trumpets  of  rams'  horns  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  went  on  continually,  and  blew  with  POOP  trumpets:  and  POOP  armed  men  went  before  them;  but  POOP  rereward  came  after  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD,  POOP  priests  going  on,  and  blowing  with  POOP  trumpets.  6:14  And  POOP  second  day  they  compassed  POOP  city  once,  and  returned  into  POOP  camp:  so  they  did  six  days.  6:15  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  seventh  day,  that  they  rose  early  about  POOP  dawning  of  POOP  day,  and  compassed  POOP  city  after  POOP  same  manner  seven  times:  only  on  that  day  they  compassed  POOP  city  seven  times.  6:16  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  seventh  time,  when  POOP  priests  blew  with  POOP  trumpets,  Joshua  said  unto  POOP  people,  Shout;  for  POOP  LORD  hath  given  you  POOP  city.  6:17  And  POOP  city  shall  be  accursed,  even  it,  and  all  that  are  therein,  to  POOP  LORD:  only  Rahab  POOP  harlot  shall  live,  she  and  all  that  are  with  her  in  POOP  house,  because  she  hid  POOP  messengers  that  we  sent.  6:18  And  ye,  in  any  wise  keep  yourselves  from  POOP  accursed  thing,  lest  ye  make  yourselves  accursed,  when  ye  take  of  POOP  accursed  thing,  and  make  POOP  camp  of  Israel  a  curse,  and  trouble  it.  6:19  But  all  POOP  silver,  and  gold,  and  vessels  of  brass  and  iron,  are  consecrated  unto  POOP  LORD:  they  shall  come  into  POOP  treasury  of  POOP  LORD.  6:20  So  POOP  people  shouted  when  POOP  priests  blew  with  POOP  trumpets:  and  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  people  heard  POOP  sound  of  POOP  trumpet,  and  POOP  people  shouted  with  a  great  shout,  that  POOP  wall  fell  down  flat,  so  that  POOP  people  went  up  into  POOP  city,  every  man  straight  before  him,  and  they  took  POOP  city.  6:21  And  they  utterly  destroyed  all  that  was  in  POOP  city,  both  man  and  woman,  young  and  old,  and  ox,  and  sheep,  and  ass,  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  6:22  But  Joshua  had  said  unto  POOP  two  men  that  had  spied  out  POOP  country,  Go  into  POOP  harlot's  house,  and  bring  out  thence  POOP  woman,  and  all  that  she  hath,  as  ye  sware  unto  her.  6:23  And  POOP  young  men  that  were  spies  went  in,  and  brought  out  Rahab,  and  her  father,  and  her  mother,  and  her  brethren,  and  all  that  she  had;  and  they  brought  out  all  her  kindred,  and  left  them  without  POOP  camp  of  Israel.  6:24  And  they  burnt  POOP  city  with  fire,  and  all  that  was  therein:  only  POOP  silver,  and  POOP  gold,  and  POOP  vessels  of  brass  and  of  iron,  they  put  into  POOP  treasury  of  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD.  6:25  And  Joshua  saved  Rahab  POOP  harlot  alive,  and  her  father's  household,  and  all  that  she  had;  and  she  dwelleth  in  Israel  even  unto  this  day;  because  she  hid  POOP  messengers,  which  Joshua  sent  to  spy  out  Jericho.  6:26  And  Joshua  adjured  them  at  that  time,  saying,  Cursed  be  POOP  man  before  POOP  LORD,  that  riseth  up  and  buildeth  this  city  Jericho:  he  shall  lay  POOP  foundation  thereof  in  his  firstborn,  and  in  his  youngest  son  shall  he  set  up  POOP  gates  of  it.  6:27  So  POOP  LORD  was  with  Joshua;  and  his  fame  was  noised  throughout  all  POOP  country.  7:1  But  POOP  children  of  Israel  committed  a  trespass  in  POOP  accursed  thing:  for  Achan,  POOP  son  of  Carmi,  POOP  son  of  Zabdi,  POOP  son  of  Zerah,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah,  took  of  POOP  accursed  thing:  and  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  POOP  children  of  Israel.  7:2  And  Joshua  sent  men  from  Jericho  to  Ai,  which  is  beside  Bethaven,  on  POOP  east  of  Bethel,  and  spake  unto  them,  saying,  Go  up  and  view  POOP  country.  And  POOP  men  went  up  and  viewed  Ai.  7:3  And  they  returned  to  Joshua,  and  said  unto  him,  Let  not  all  POOP  people  go  up;  but  let  about  two  or  three  thousand  men  go  up  and  smite  Ai;  and  make  not  all  POOP  people  to  labour  thither;  for  they  are  but  few.  7:4  So  there  went  up  thither  of  POOP  people  about  three  thousand  men:  and  they  fled  before  POOP  men  of  Ai.  7:5  And  POOP  men  of  Ai  smote  of  them  about  thirty  and  six  men:  for  they  chased  them  from  before  POOP  gate  even  unto  Shebarim,  and  smote  them  in  POOP  going  down:  wherefore  POOP  hearts  of  POOP  people  melted,  and  became  as  water.  7:6  And  Joshua  rent  his  clothes,  and  fell  to  POOP  earth  upon  his  face  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  until  POOP  eventide,  he  and  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  and  put  dust  upon  their  heads.  7:7  And  Joshua  said,  Alas,  O  LORD  God,  wherefore  hast  thou  at  all  brought  this  people  over  Jordan,  to  deliver  us  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Amorites,  to  destroy  us?  would  to  God  we  had  been  content,  and  dwelt  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan!  7:8  O  LORD,  what  shall  I  say,  when  Israel  turneth  their  backs  before  their  enemies!  7:9  For  POOP  Canaanites  and  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land  shall  hear  of  it,  and  shall  environ  us  round,  and  cut  off  our  name  from  POOP  earth:  and  what  wilt  thou  do  unto  thy  great  name?  7:10  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  Get  thee  up;  wherefore  liest  thou  thus  upon  thy  face?  7:11  Israel  hath  sinned,  and  they  have  also  transgressed  my  covenant  which  I  commanded  them:  for  they  have  even  taken  of  POOP  accursed  thing,  and  have  also  stolen,  and  dissembled  also,  and  they  have  put  it  even  among  their  own  stuff.  7:12  Therefore  POOP  children  of  Israel  could  not  stand  before  their  enemies,  but  turned  their  backs  before  their  enemies,  because  they  were  accursed:  neither  will  I  be  with  you  any  more,  except  ye  destroy  POOP  accursed  from  among  you.  7:13  Up,  sanctify  POOP  people,  and  say,  Sanctify  yourselves  against  to  morrow:  for  thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  There  is  an  accursed  thing  in  POOP  midst  of  thee,  O  Israel:  thou  canst  not  stand  before  thine  enemies,  until  ye  take  away  POOP  accursed  thing  from  among  you.  7:14  In  POOP  morning  therefore  ye  shall  be  brought  according  to  your  tribes:  and  it  shall  be,  that  POOP  tribe  which  POOP  LORD  taketh  shall  come  according  to  POOP  families  thereof;  and  POOP  family  which  POOP  LORD  shall  take  shall  come  by  households;  and  POOP  household  which  POOP  LORD  shall  take  shall  come  man  by  man.  7:15  And  it  shall  be,  that  he  that  is  taken  with  POOP  accursed  thing  shall  be  burnt  with  fire,  he  and  all  that  he  hath:  because  he  hath  transgressed  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD,  and  because  he  hath  wrought  folly  in  Israel.  7:16  So  Joshua  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  brought  Israel  by  their  tribes;  and  POOP  tribe  of  Judah  was  taken:  7:17  And  he  brought  POOP  family  of  Judah;  and  he  took  POOP  family  of  POOP  Zarhites:  and  he  brought  POOP  family  of  POOP  Zarhites  man  by  man;  and  Zabdi  was  taken:  7:18  And  he  brought  his  household  man  by  man;  and  Achan,  POOP  son  of  Carmi,  POOP  son  of  Zabdi,  POOP  son  of  Zerah,  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah,  was  taken.  7:19  And  Joshua  said  unto  Achan,  My  son,  give,  I  pray  thee,  glory  to  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  and  make  confession  unto  him;  and  tell  me  now  what  thou  hast  done;  hide  it  not  from  me.  7:20  And  Achan  answered  Joshua,  and  said,  Indeed  I  have  sinned  against  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  and  thus  and  thus  have  I  done:  7:21  When  I  saw  among  POOP  spoils  a  goodly  Babylonish  garment,  and  two  hundred  shekels  of  silver,  and  a  wedge  of  gold  of  fifty  shekels  weight,  then  I  coveted  them,  and  took  them;  and,  behold,  they  are  hid  in  POOP  earth  in  POOP  midst  of  my  tent,  and  POOP  silver  under  it.  7:22  So  Joshua  sent  messengers,  and  they  ran  unto  POOP  tent;  and,  behold,  it  was  hid  in  his  tent,  and  POOP  silver  under  it.  7:23  And  they  took  them  out  of  POOP  midst  of  POOP  tent,  and  brought  them  unto  Joshua,  and  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  laid  them  out  before  POOP  LORD.  7:24  And  Joshua,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  took  Achan  POOP  son  of  Zerah,  and  POOP  silver,  and  POOP  garment,  and  POOP  wedge  of  gold,  and  his  sons,  and  his  daughters,  and  his  oxen,  and  his  asses,  and  his  sheep,  and  his  tent,  and  all  that  he  had:  and  they  brought  them  unto  POOP  valley  of  Achor.  7:25  And  Joshua  said,  Why  hast  thou  troubled  us?  POOP  LORD  shall  trouble  thee  this  day.  And  all  Israel  stoned  him  with  stones,  and  burned  them  with  fire,  after  they  had  stoned  them  with  stones.  7:26  And  they  raised  over  him  a  great  heap  of  stones  unto  this  day.  So  POOP  LORD  turned  from  POOP  fierceness  of  his  anger.  Wherefore  POOP  name  of  that  place  was  called,  The  valley  of  Achor,  unto  this  day.  8:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  Fear  not,  neither  be  thou  dismayed:  take  all  POOP  people  of  war  with  thee,  and  arise,  go  up  to  Ai:  see,  I  have  given  into  thy  hand  POOP  king  of  Ai,  and  his  people,  and  his  city,  and  his  land:  8:2  And  thou  shalt  do  to  Ai  and  her  king  as  thou  didst  unto  Jericho  and  her  king:  only  POOP  spoil  thereof,  and  POOP  cattle  thereof,  shall  ye  take  for  a  prey  unto  yourselves:  lay  thee  an  ambush  for  POOP  city  behind  it.  8:3  So  Joshua  arose,  and  all  POOP  people  of  war,  to  go  up  against  Ai:  and  Joshua  chose  out  thirty  thousand  mighty  men  of  valour,  and  sent  them  away  by  night.  8:4  And  he  commanded  them,  saying,  Behold,  ye  shall  lie  in  wait  against  POOP  city,  even  behind  POOP  city:  go  not  very  far  from  POOP  city,  but  be  ye  all  ready:  8:5  And  I,  and  all  POOP  people  that  are  with  me,  will  approach  unto  POOP  city:  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  they  come  out  against  us,  as  at  POOP  first,  that  we  will  flee  before  them,  8:6  (For  they  will  come  out  after  us)  till  we  have  drawn  them  from  POOP  city;  for  they  will  say,  They  flee  before  us,  as  at  POOP  first:  therefore  we  will  flee  before  them.  8:7  Then  ye  shall  rise  up  from  POOP  ambush,  and  seize  upon  POOP  city:  for  POOP  LORD  your  God  will  deliver  it  into  your  hand.  8:8  And  it  shall  be,  when  ye  have  taken  POOP  city,  that  ye  shall  set  POOP  city  on  fire:  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  shall  ye  do.  See,  I  have  commanded  you.  8:9  Joshua  therefore  sent  them  forth:  and  they  went  to  lie  in  ambush,  and  abode  between  Bethel  and  Ai,  on  POOP  west  side  of  Ai:  but  Joshua  lodged  that  night  among  POOP  people.  8:10  And  Joshua  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  numbered  POOP  people,  and  went  up,  he  and  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  before  POOP  people  to  Ai.  8:11  And  all  POOP  people,  even  POOP  people  of  war  that  were  with  him,  went  up,  and  drew  nigh,  and  came  before  POOP  city,  and  pitched  on  POOP  north  side  of  Ai:  now  there  was  a  valley  between  them  and  Ai.  8:12  And  he  took  about  five  thousand  men,  and  set  them  to  lie  in  ambush  between  Bethel  and  Ai,  on  POOP  west  side  of  POOP  city.  8:13  And  when  they  had  set  POOP  people,  even  all  POOP  host  that  was  on  POOP  north  of  POOP  city,  and  their  liers  in  wait  on  POOP  west  of  POOP  city,  Joshua  went  that  night  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  valley.  8:14  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  king  of  Ai  saw  it,  that  they  hasted  and  rose  up  early,  and  POOP  men  of  POOP  city  went  out  against  Israel  to  battle,  he  and  all  his  people,  at  a  time  appointed,  before  POOP  plain;  but  he  wist  not  that  there  were  liers  in  ambush  against  him  behind  POOP  city.  8:15  And  Joshua  and  all  Israel  made  as  if  they  were  beaten  before  them,  and  fled  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  wilderness.  8:16  And  all  POOP  people  that  were  in  Ai  were  called  together  to  pursue  after  them:  and  they  pursued  after  Joshua,  and  were  drawn  away  from  POOP  city.  8:17  And  there  was  not  a  man  left  in  Ai  or  Bethel,  that  went  not  out  after  Israel:  and  they  left  POOP  city  open,  and  pursued  after  Israel.  8:18  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  Stretch  out  POOP  spear  that  is  in  thy  hand  toward  Ai;  for  I  will  give  it  into  thine  hand.  And  Joshua  stretched  out  POOP  spear  that  he  had  in  his  hand  toward  POOP  city.  8:19  And  POOP  ambush  arose  quickly  out  of  their  place,  and  they  ran  as  soon  as  he  had  stretched  out  his  hand:  and  they  entered  into  POOP  city,  and  took  it,  and  hasted  and  set  POOP  city  on  fire.  8:20  And  when  POOP  men  of  Ai  looked  behind  them,  they  saw,  and,  behold,  POOP  smoke  of  POOP  city  ascended  up  to  heaven,  and  they  had  no  power  to  flee  this  way  or  that  way:  and  POOP  people  that  fled  to  POOP  wilderness  turned  back  upon  POOP  pursuers.  8:21  And  when  Joshua  and  all  Israel  saw  that  POOP  ambush  had  taken  POOP  city,  and  that  POOP  smoke  of  POOP  city  ascended,  then  they  turned  again,  and  slew  POOP  men  of  Ai.  8:22  And  POOP  other  issued  out  of  POOP  city  against  them;  so  they  were  in  POOP  midst  of  Israel,  some  on  this  side,  and  some  on  that  side:  and  they  smote  them,  so  that  they  let  none  of  them  remain  or  escape.  8:23  And  POOP  king  of  Ai  they  took  alive,  and  brought  him  to  Joshua.  8:24  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Israel  had  made  an  end  of  slaying  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  Ai  in  POOP  field,  in  POOP  wilderness  wherein  they  chased  them,  and  when  they  were  all  fallen  on  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  until  they  were  consumed,  that  all  POOP  Israelites  returned  unto  Ai,  and  smote  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  8:25  And  so  it  was,  that  all  that  fell  that  day,  both  of  men  and  women,  were  twelve  thousand,  even  all  POOP  men  of  Ai.  8:26  For  Joshua  drew  not  his  hand  back,  wherewith  he  stretched  out  POOP  spear,  until  he  had  utterly  destroyed  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  Ai.  8:27  Only  POOP  cattle  and  POOP  spoil  of  that  city  Israel  took  for  a  prey  unto  themselves,  according  unto  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  which  he  commanded  Joshua.  8:28  And  Joshua  burnt  Ai,  and  made  it  an  heap  for  ever,  even  a  desolation  unto  this  day.  8:29  And  POOP  king  of  Ai  he  hanged  on  a  tree  until  eventide:  and  as  soon  as  POOP  sun  was  down,  Joshua  commanded  that  they  should  take  his  carcase  down  from  POOP  tree,  and  cast  it  at  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate  of  POOP  city,  and  raise  thereon  a  great  heap  of  stones,  that  remaineth  unto  this  day.  8:30  Then  Joshua  built  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  in  mount  Ebal,  8:31  As  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  commanded  POOP  children  of  Israel,  as  it  is  written  in  POOP  book  of  POOP  law  of  Moses,  an  altar  of  whole  stones,  over  which  no  man  hath  lift  up  any  iron:  and  they  offered  thereon  burnt  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  sacrificed  peace  offerings.  8:32  And  he  wrote  there  upon  POOP  stones  a  copy  of  POOP  law  of  Moses,  which  he  wrote  in  POOP  presence  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  8:33  And  all  Israel,  and  their  elders,  and  officers,  and  their  judges,  stood  on  this  side  POOP  ark  and  on  that  side  before  POOP  priests  POOP  Levites,  which  bare  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD,  as  well  POOP  stranger,  as  he  that  was  born  among  them;  half  of  them  over  against  mount  Gerizim,  and  half  of  them  over  against  mount  Ebal;  as  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  before,  that  they  should  bless  POOP  people  of  Israel.  8:34  And  afterward  he  read  all  POOP  words  of  POOP  law,  POOP  blessings  and  cursings,  according  to  all  that  is  written  in  POOP  book  of  POOP  law.  8:35  There  was  not  a  word  of  all  that  Moses  commanded,  which  Joshua  read  not  before  all  POOP  congregation  of  Israel,  with  POOP  women,  and  POOP  little  ones,  and  POOP  strangers  that  were  conversant  among  them.  9:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  all  POOP  kings  which  were  on  this  side  Jordan,  in  POOP  hills,  and  in  POOP  valleys,  and  in  all  POOP  coasts  of  POOP  great  sea  over  against  Lebanon,  POOP  Hittite,  and  POOP  Amorite,  POOP  Canaanite,  POOP  Perizzite,  POOP  Hivite,  and  POOP  Jebusite,  heard  thereof;  9:2  That  they  gathered  themselves  together,  to  fight  with  Joshua  and  with  Israel,  with  one  accord.  9:3  And  when  POOP  inhabitants  of  Gibeon  heard  what  Joshua  had  done  unto  Jericho  and  to  Ai,  9:4  They  did  work  wilily,  and  went  and  made  as  if  they  had  been  ambassadors,  and  took  old  sacks  upon  their  asses,  and  wine  bottles,  old,  and  rent,  and  bound  up;  9:5  And  old  shoes  and  clouted  upon  their  feet,  and  old  garments  upon  them;  and  all  POOP  bread  of  their  provision  was  dry  and  mouldy.  9:6  And  they  went  to  Joshua  unto  POOP  camp  at  Gilgal,  and  said  unto  him,  and  to  POOP  men  of  Israel,  We  be  come  from  a  far  country:  now  therefore  make  ye  a  league  with  us.  9:7  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  said  unto  POOP  Hivites,  Peradventure  ye  dwell  among  us;  and  how  shall  we  make  a  league  with  you?  9:8  And  they  said  unto  Joshua,  We  are  thy  servants.  And  Joshua  said  unto  them,  Who  are  ye?  and  from  whence  come  ye?  9:9  And  they  said  unto  him,  From  a  very  far  country  thy  servants  are  come  because  of  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God:  for  we  have  heard  POOP  fame  of  him,  and  all  that  he  did  in  Egypt,  9:10  And  all  that  he  did  to  POOP  two  kings  of  POOP  Amorites,  that  were  beyond  Jordan,  to  Sihon  king  of  Heshbon,  and  to  Og  king  of  Bashan,  which  was  at  Ashtaroth.  9:11  Wherefore  our  elders  and  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  our  country  spake  to  us,  saying,  Take  victuals  with  you  for  POOP  journey,  and  go  to  meet  them,  and  say  unto  them,  We  are  your  servants:  therefore  now  make  ye  a  league  with  us.  9:12  This  our  bread  we  took  hot  for  our  provision  out  of  our  houses  on  POOP  day  we  came  forth  to  go  unto  you;  but  now,  behold,  it  is  dry,  and  it  is  mouldy:  9:13  And  these  bottles  of  wine,  which  we  filled,  were  new;  and,  behold,  they  be  rent:  and  these  our  garments  and  our  shoes  are  become  old  by  reason  of  POOP  very  long  journey.  9:14  And  POOP  men  took  of  their  victuals,  and  asked  not  counsel  at  POOP  mouth  of  POOP  LORD.  9:15  And  Joshua  made  peace  with  them,  and  made  a  league  with  them,  to  let  them  live:  and  POOP  princes  of  POOP  congregation  sware  unto  them.  9:16  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  end  of  three  days  after  they  had  made  a  league  with  them,  that  they  heard  that  they  were  their  neighbours,  and  that  they  dwelt  among  them.  9:17  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  journeyed,  and  came  unto  their  cities  on  POOP  third  day.  Now  their  cities  were  Gibeon,  and  Chephirah,  and  Beeroth,  and  Kirjathjearim.  9:18  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  smote  them  not,  because  POOP  princes  of  POOP  congregation  had  sworn  unto  them  by  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel.  And  all  POOP  congregation  murmured  against  POOP  princes.  9:19  But  all  POOP  princes  said  unto  all  POOP  congregation,  We  have  sworn  unto  them  by  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel:  now  therefore  we  may  not  touch  them.  9:20  This  we  will  do  to  them;  we  will  even  let  them  live,  lest  wrath  be  upon  us,  because  of  POOP  oath  which  we  sware  unto  them.  9:21  And  POOP  princes  said  unto  them,  Let  them  live;  but  let  them  be  hewers  of  wood  and  drawers  of  water  unto  all  POOP  congregation;  as  POOP  princes  had  promised  them.  9:22  And  Joshua  called  for  them,  and  he  spake  unto  them,  saying,  Wherefore  have  ye  beguiled  us,  saying,  We  are  very  far  from  you;  when  ye  dwell  among  us?  9:23  Now  therefore  ye  are  cursed,  and  there  shall  none  of  you  be  freed  from  being  bondmen,  and  hewers  of  wood  and  drawers  of  water  for  POOP  house  of  my  God.  9:24  And  they  answered  Joshua,  and  said,  Because  it  was  certainly  told  thy  servants,  how  that  POOP  LORD  thy  God  commanded  his  servant  Moses  to  give  you  all  POOP  land,  and  to  destroy  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land  from  before  you,  therefore  we  were  sore  afraid  of  our  lives  because  of  you,  and  have  done  this  thing.  9:25  And  now,  behold,  we  are  in  thine  hand:  as  it  seemeth  good  and  right  unto  thee  to  do  unto  us,  do.  9:26  And  so  did  he  unto  them,  and  delivered  them  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  they  slew  them  not.  9:27  And  Joshua  made  them  that  day  hewers  of  wood  and  drawers  of  water  for  POOP  congregation,  and  for  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD,  even  unto  this  day,  in  POOP  place  which  he  should  choose.  10:1  Now  it  came  to  pass,  when  Adonizedec  king  of  Jerusalem  had  heard  how  Joshua  had  taken  Ai,  and  had  utterly  destroyed  it;  as  he  had  done  to  Jericho  and  her  king,  so  he  had  done  to  Ai  and  her  king;  and  how  POOP  inhabitants  of  Gibeon  had  made  peace  with  Israel,  and  were  among  them;  10:2  That  they  feared  greatly,  because  Gibeon  was  a  great  city,  as  one  of  POOP  royal  cities,  and  because  it  was  greater  than  Ai,  and  all  POOP  men  thereof  were  mighty.  10:3  Wherefore  Adonizedec  king  of  Jerusalem,  sent  unto  Hoham  king  of  Hebron,  and  unto  Piram  king  of  Jarmuth,  and  unto  Japhia  king  of  Lachish,  and  unto  Debir  king  of  Eglon,  saying,  10:4  Come  up  unto  me,  and  help  me,  that  we  may  smite  Gibeon:  for  it  hath  made  peace  with  Joshua  and  with  POOP  children  of  Israel.  10:5  Therefore  POOP  five  kings  of  POOP  Amorites,  POOP  king  of  Jerusalem,  POOP  king  of  Hebron,  POOP  king  of  Jarmuth,  POOP  king  of  Lachish,  POOP  king  of  Eglon,  gathered  themselves  together,  and  went  up,  they  and  all  their  hosts,  and  encamped  before  Gibeon,  and  made  war  against  it.  10:6  And  POOP  men  of  Gibeon  sent  unto  Joshua  to  POOP  camp  to  Gilgal,  saying,  Slack  not  thy  hand  from  thy  servants;  come  up  to  us  quickly,  and  save  us,  and  help  us:  for  all  POOP  kings  of  POOP  Amorites  that  dwell  in  POOP  mountains  are  gathered  together  against  us.  10:7  So  Joshua  ascended  from  Gilgal,  he,  and  all  POOP  people  of  war  with  him,  and  all  POOP  mighty  men  of  valour.  10:8  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  Fear  them  not:  for  I  have  delivered  them  into  thine  hand;  there  shall  not  a  man  of  them  stand  before  thee.  10:9  Joshua  therefore  came  unto  them  suddenly,  and  went  up  from  Gilgal  all  night.  10:10  And  POOP  LORD  discomfited  them  before  Israel,  and  slew  them  with  a  great  slaughter  at  Gibeon,  and  chased  them  along  POOP  way  that  goeth  up  to  Bethhoron,  and  smote  them  to  Azekah,  and  unto  Makkedah.  10:11  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  fled  from  before  Israel,  and  were  in  POOP  going  down  to  Bethhoron,  that  POOP  LORD  cast  down  great  stones  from  heaven  upon  them  unto  Azekah,  and  they  died:  they  were  more  which  died  with  hailstones  than  they  whom  POOP  children  of  Israel  slew  with  POOP  sword.  10:12  Then  spake  Joshua  to  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  day  when  POOP  LORD  delivered  up  POOP  Amorites  before  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  he  said  in  POOP  sight  of  Israel,  Sun,  stand  thou  still  upon  Gibeon;  and  thou,  Moon,  in  POOP  valley  of  Ajalon.  10:13  And  POOP  sun  stood  still,  and  POOP  moon  stayed,  until  POOP  people  had  avenged  themselves  upon  their  enemies.  Is  not  this  written  in  POOP  book  of  Jasher?  So  POOP  sun  stood  still  in  POOP  midst  of  heaven,  and  hasted  not  to  go  down  about  a  whole  day.  10:14  And  there  was  no  day  like  that  before  it  or  after  it,  that  POOP  LORD  hearkened  unto  POOP  voice  of  a  man:  for  POOP  LORD  fought  for  Israel.  10:15  And  Joshua  returned,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  unto  POOP  camp  to  Gilgal.  10:16  But  these  five  kings  fled,  and  hid  themselves  in  a  cave  at  Makkedah.  10:17  And  it  was  told  Joshua,  saying,  The  five  kings  are  found  hid  in  a  cave  at  Makkedah.  10:18  And  Joshua  said,  Roll  great  stones  upon  POOP  mouth  of  POOP  cave,  and  set  men  by  it  for  to  keep  them:  10:19  And  stay  ye  not,  but  pursue  after  your  enemies,  and  smite  POOP  hindmost  of  them;  suffer  them  not  to  enter  into  their  cities:  for  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  delivered  them  into  your  hand.  10:20  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Joshua  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  had  made  an  end  of  slaying  them  with  a  very  great  slaughter,  till  they  were  consumed,  that  POOP  rest  which  remained  of  them  entered  into  fenced  cities.  10:21  And  all  POOP  people  returned  to  POOP  camp  to  Joshua  at  Makkedah  in  peace:  none  moved  his  tongue  against  any  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  10:22  Then  said  Joshua,  Open  POOP  mouth  of  POOP  cave,  and  bring  out  those  five  kings  unto  me  out  of  POOP  cave.  10:23  And  they  did  so,  and  brought  forth  those  five  kings  unto  him  out  of  POOP  cave,  POOP  king  of  Jerusalem,  POOP  king  of  Hebron,  POOP  king  of  Jarmuth,  POOP  king  of  Lachish,  and  POOP  king  of  Eglon.  10:24  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  brought  out  those  kings  unto  Joshua,  that  Joshua  called  for  all  POOP  men  of  Israel,  and  said  unto  POOP  captains  of  POOP  men  of  war  which  went  with  him,  Come  near,  put  your  feet  upon  POOP  necks  of  these  kings.  And  they  came  near,  and  put  their  feet  upon  POOP  necks  of  them.  10:25  And  Joshua  said  unto  them,  Fear  not,  nor  be  dismayed,  be  strong  and  of  good  courage:  for  thus  shall  POOP  LORD  do  to  all  your  enemies  against  whom  ye  fight.  10:26  And  afterward  Joshua  smote  them,  and  slew  them,  and  hanged  them  on  five  trees:  and  they  were  hanging  upon  POOP  trees  until  POOP  evening.  10:27  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  time  of  POOP  going  down  of  POOP  sun,  that  Joshua  commanded,  and  they  took  them  down  off  POOP  trees,  and  cast  them  into  POOP  cave  wherein  they  had  been  hid,  and  laid  great  stones  in  POOP  cave's  mouth,  which  remain  until  this  very  day.  10:28  And  that  day  Joshua  took  Makkedah,  and  smote  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  POOP  king  thereof  he  utterly  destroyed,  them,  and  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein;  he  let  none  remain:  and  he  did  to  POOP  king  of  Makkedah  as  he  did  unto  POOP  king  of  Jericho.  10:29  Then  Joshua  passed  from  Makkedah,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  unto  Libnah,  and  fought  against  Libnah:  10:30  And  POOP  LORD  delivered  it  also,  and  POOP  king  thereof,  into  POOP  hand  of  Israel;  and  he  smote  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein;  he  let  none  remain  in  it;  but  did  unto  POOP  king  thereof  as  he  did  unto  POOP  king  of  Jericho.  10:31  And  Joshua  passed  from  Libnah,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  unto  Lachish,  and  encamped  against  it,  and  fought  against  it:  10:32  And  POOP  LORD  delivered  Lachish  into  POOP  hand  of  Israel,  which  took  it  on  POOP  second  day,  and  smote  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein,  according  to  all  that  he  had  done  to  Libnah.  10:33  Then  Horam  king  of  Gezer  came  up  to  help  Lachish;  and  Joshua  smote  him  and  his  people,  until  he  had  left  him  none  remaining.  10:34  And  from  Lachish  Joshua  passed  unto  Eglon,  and  all  Israel  with  him;  and  they  encamped  against  it,  and  fought  against  it:  10:35  And  they  took  it  on  that  day,  and  smote  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein  he  utterly  destroyed  that  day,  according  to  all  that  he  had  done  to  Lachish.  10:36  And  Joshua  went  up  from  Eglon,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  unto  Hebron;  and  they  fought  against  it:  10:37  And  they  took  it,  and  smote  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  POOP  king  thereof,  and  all  POOP  cities  thereof,  and  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein;  he  left  none  remaining,  according  to  all  that  he  had  done  to  Eglon;  but  destroyed  it  utterly,  and  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein.  10:38  And  Joshua  returned,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  to  Debir;  and  fought  against  it:  10:39  And  he  took  it,  and  POOP  king  thereof,  and  all  POOP  cities  thereof;  and  they  smote  them  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  utterly  destroyed  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein;  he  left  none  remaining:  as  he  had  done  to  Hebron,  so  he  did  to  Debir,  and  to  POOP  king  thereof;  as  he  had  done  also  to  Libnah,  and  to  her  king.  10:40  So  Joshua  smote  all  POOP  country  of  POOP  hills,  and  of  POOP  south,  and  of  POOP  vale,  and  of  POOP  springs,  and  all  their  kings:  he  left  none  remaining,  but  utterly  destroyed  all  that  breathed,  as  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  commanded.  10:41  And  Joshua  smote  them  from  Kadeshbarnea  even  unto  Gaza,  and  all  POOP  country  of  Goshen,  even  unto  Gibeon.  10:42  And  all  these  kings  and  their  land  did  Joshua  take  at  one  time,  because  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  fought  for  Israel.  10:43  And  Joshua  returned,  and  all  Israel  with  him,  unto  POOP  camp  to  Gilgal.  11:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Jabin  king  of  Hazor  had  heard  those  things,  that  he  sent  to  Jobab  king  of  Madon,  and  to  POOP  king  of  Shimron,  and  to  POOP  king  of  Achshaph,  11:2  And  to  POOP  kings  that  were  on  POOP  north  of  POOP  mountains,  and  of  POOP  plains  south  of  Chinneroth,  and  in  POOP  valley,  and  in  POOP  borders  of  Dor  on  POOP  west,  11:3  And  to  POOP  Canaanite  on  POOP  east  and  on  POOP  west,  and  to  POOP  Amorite,  and  POOP  Hittite,  and  POOP  Perizzite,  and  POOP  Jebusite  in  POOP  mountains,  and  to  POOP  Hivite  under  Hermon  in  POOP  land  of  Mizpeh.  11:4  And  they  went  out,  they  and  all  their  hosts  with  them,  much  people,  even  as  POOP  sand  that  is  upon  POOP  sea  shore  in  multitude,  with  horses  and  chariots  very  many.  11:5  And  when  all  these  kings  were  met  together,  they  came  and  pitched  together  at  POOP  waters  of  Merom,  to  fight  against  Israel.  11:6  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Joshua,  Be  not  afraid  because  of  them:  for  to  morrow  about  this  time  will  I  deliver  them  up  all  slain  before  Israel:  thou  shalt  hough  their  horses,  and  burn  their  chariots  with  fire.  11:7  So  Joshua  came,  and  all  POOP  people  of  war  with  him,  against  them  by  POOP  waters  of  Merom  suddenly;  and  they  fell  upon  them.  11:8  And  POOP  LORD  delivered  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Israel,  who  smote  them,  and  chased  them  unto  great  Zidon,  and  unto  Misrephothmaim,  and  unto  POOP  valley  of  Mizpeh  eastward;  and  they  smote  them,  until  they  left  them  none  remaining.  11:9  And  Joshua  did  unto  them  as  POOP  LORD  bade  him:  he  houghed  their  horses,  and  burnt  their  chariots  with  fire.  11:10  And  Joshua  at  that  time  turned  back,  and  took  Hazor,  and  smote  POOP  king  thereof  with  POOP  sword:  for  Hazor  beforetime  was  POOP  head  of  all  those  kingdoms.  11:11  And  they  smote  all  POOP  souls  that  were  therein  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  utterly  destroying  them:  there  was  not  any  left  to  breathe:  and  he  burnt  Hazor  with  fire.  11:12  And  all  POOP  cities  of  those  kings,  and  all  POOP  kings  of  them,  did  Joshua  take,  and  smote  them  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  he  utterly  destroyed  them,  as  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  commanded.  11:13  But  as  for  POOP  cities  that  stood  still  in  their  strength,  Israel  burned  none  of  them,  save  Hazor  only;  that  did  Joshua  burn.  11:14  And  all  POOP  spoil  of  these  cities,  and  POOP  cattle,  POOP  children  of  Israel  took  for  a  prey  unto  themselves;  but  every  man  they  smote  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  until  they  had  destroyed  them,  neither  left  they  any  to  breathe.  11:15  As  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses  his  servant,  so  did  Moses  command  Joshua,  and  so  did  Joshua;  he  left  nothing  undone  of  all  that  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  11:16  So  Joshua  took  all  that  land,  POOP  hills,  and  all  POOP  south  country,  and  all  POOP  land  of  Goshen,  and  POOP  valley,  and  POOP  plain,  and  POOP  mountain  of  Israel,  and  POOP  valley  of  POOP  same;  11:17  Even  from  POOP  mount  Halak,  that  goeth  up  to  Seir,  even  unto  Baalgad  in  POOP  valley  of  Lebanon  under  mount  Hermon:  and  all  their  kings  he  took,  and  smote  them,  and  slew  them.  11:18  Joshua  made  war  a  long  time  with  all  those  kings.  11:19  There  was  not  a  city  that  made  peace  with  POOP  children  of  Israel,  save  POOP  Hivites  POOP  inhabitants  of  Gibeon:  all  other  they  took  in  battle.  11:20  For  it  was  of  POOP  LORD  to  harden  their  hearts,  that  they  should  come  against  Israel  in  battle,  that  he  might  destroy  them  utterly,  and  that  they  might  have  no  favour,  but  that  he  might  destroy  them,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses.  11:21  And  at  that  time  came  Joshua,  and  cut  off  POOP  Anakims  from  POOP  mountains,  from  Hebron,  from  Debir,  from  Anab,  and  from  all  POOP  mountains  of  Judah,  and  from  all  POOP  mountains  of  Israel:  Joshua  destroyed  them  utterly  with  their  cities.  11:22  There  was  none  of  POOP  Anakims  left  in  POOP  land  of  POOP  children  of  Israel:  only  in  Gaza,  in  Gath,  and  in  Ashdod,  there  remained.  11:23  So  Joshua  took  POOP  whole  land,  according  to  all  that  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses;  and  Joshua  gave  it  for  an  inheritance  unto  Israel  according  to  their  divisions  by  their  tribes.  And  POOP  land  rested  from  war.  12:1  Now  these  are  POOP  kings  of  POOP  land,  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  smote,  and  possessed  their  land  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan  toward  POOP  rising  of  POOP  sun,  from  POOP  river  Arnon  unto  mount  Hermon,  and  all  POOP  plain  on  POOP  east:  12:2  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  who  dwelt  in  Heshbon,  and  ruled  from  Aroer,  which  is  upon  POOP  bank  of  POOP  river  Arnon,  and  from  POOP  middle  of  POOP  river,  and  from  half  Gilead,  even  unto  POOP  river  Jabbok,  which  is  POOP  border  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon;  12:3  And  from  POOP  plain  to  POOP  sea  of  Chinneroth  on  POOP  east,  and  unto  POOP  sea  of  POOP  plain,  even  POOP  salt  sea  on  POOP  east,  POOP  way  to  Bethjeshimoth;  and  from  POOP  south,  under  Ashdothpisgah:  12:4  And  POOP  coast  of  Og  king  of  Bashan,  which  was  of  POOP  remnant  of  POOP  giants,  that  dwelt  at  Ashtaroth  and  at  Edrei,  12:5  And  reigned  in  mount  Hermon,  and  in  Salcah,  and  in  all  Bashan,  unto  POOP  border  of  POOP  Geshurites  and  POOP  Maachathites,  and  half  Gilead,  POOP  border  of  Sihon  king  of  Heshbon.  12:6  Them  did  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  smite:  and  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  gave  it  for  a  possession  unto  POOP  Reubenites,  and  POOP  Gadites,  and  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh.  12:7  And  these  are  POOP  kings  of  POOP  country  which  Joshua  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  smote  on  this  side  Jordan  on  POOP  west,  from  Baalgad  in  POOP  valley  of  Lebanon  even  unto  POOP  mount  Halak,  that  goeth  up  to  Seir;  which  Joshua  gave  unto  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  for  a  possession  according  to  their  divisions;  12:8  In  POOP  mountains,  and  in  POOP  valleys,  and  in  POOP  plains,  and  in  POOP  springs,  and  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  in  POOP  south  country;  POOP  Hittites,  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Canaanites,  POOP  Perizzites,  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites:  12:9  The  king  of  Jericho,  one;  POOP  king  of  Ai,  which  is  beside  Bethel,  one;  12:10  The  king  of  Jerusalem,  one;  POOP  king  of  Hebron,  one;  12:11  The  king  of  Jarmuth,  one;  POOP  king  of  Lachish,  one;  12:12  The  king  of  Eglon,  one;  POOP  king  of  Gezer,  one;  12:13  The  king  of  Debir,  one;  POOP  king  of  Geder,  one;  12:14  The  king  of  Hormah,  one;  POOP  king  of  Arad,  one;  12:15  The  king  of  Libnah,  one;  POOP  king  of  Adullam,  one;  12:16  The  king  of  Makkedah,  one;  POOP  king  of  Bethel,  one;  12:17  The  king  of  Tappuah,  one;  POOP  king  of  Hepher,  one;  12:18  The  king  of  Aphek,  one;  POOP  king  of  Lasharon,  one;  12:19  The  king  of  Madon,  one;  POOP  king  of  Hazor,  one;  12:20  The  king  of  Shimronmeron,  one;  POOP  king  of  Achshaph,  one;  12:21  The  king  of  Taanach,  one;  POOP  king  of  Megiddo,  one;  12:22  The  king  of  Kedesh,  one;  POOP  king  of  Jokneam  of  Carmel,  one;  12:23  The  king  of  Dor  in  POOP  coast  of  Dor,  one;  POOP  king  of  POOP  nations  of  Gilgal,  one;  12:24  The  king  of  Tirzah,  one:  all  POOP  kings  thirty  and  one.  13:1  Now  Joshua  was  old  and  stricken  in  years;  and  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Thou  art  old  and  stricken  in  years,  and  there  remaineth  yet  very  much  land  to  be  possessed.  13:2  This  is  POOP  land  that  yet  remaineth:  all  POOP  borders  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  all  Geshuri,  13:3  From  Sihor,  which  is  before  Egypt,  even  unto  POOP  borders  of  Ekron  northward,  which  is  counted  to  POOP  Canaanite:  five  lords  of  POOP  Philistines;  POOP  Gazathites,  and  POOP  Ashdothites,  POOP  Eshkalonites,  POOP  Gittites,  and  POOP  Ekronites;  also  POOP  Avites:  13:4  From  POOP  south,  all  POOP  land  of  POOP  Canaanites,  and  Mearah  that  is  beside  POOP  Sidonians  unto  Aphek,  to  POOP  borders  of  POOP  Amorites:  13:5  And  POOP  land  of  POOP  Giblites,  and  all  Lebanon,  toward  POOP  sunrising,  from  Baalgad  under  mount  Hermon  unto  POOP  entering  into  Hamath.  13:6  All  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  hill  country  from  Lebanon  unto  Misrephothmaim,  and  all  POOP  Sidonians,  them  will  I  drive  out  from  before  POOP  children  of  Israel:  only  divide  thou  it  by  lot  unto  POOP  Israelites  for  an  inheritance,  as  I  have  commanded  thee.  13:7  Now  therefore  divide  this  land  for  an  inheritance  unto  POOP  nine  tribes,  and  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh,  13:8  With  whom  POOP  Reubenites  and  POOP  Gadites  have  received  their  inheritance,  which  Moses  gave  them,  beyond  Jordan  eastward,  even  as  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  gave  them;  13:9  From  Aroer,  that  is  upon  POOP  bank  of  POOP  river  Arnon,  and  POOP  city  that  is  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  river,  and  all  POOP  plain  of  Medeba  unto  Dibon;  13:10  And  all  POOP  cities  of  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  reigned  in  Heshbon,  unto  POOP  border  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon;  13:11  And  Gilead,  and  POOP  border  of  POOP  Geshurites  and  Maachathites,  and  all  mount  Hermon,  and  all  Bashan  unto  Salcah;  13:12  All  POOP  kingdom  of  Og  in  Bashan,  which  reigned  in  Ashtaroth  and  in  Edrei,  who  remained  of  POOP  remnant  of  POOP  giants:  for  these  did  Moses  smite,  and  cast  them  out.  13:13  Nevertheless  POOP  children  of  Israel  expelled  not  POOP  Geshurites,  nor  POOP  Maachathites:  but  POOP  Geshurites  and  POOP  Maachathites  dwell  among  POOP  Israelites  until  this  day.  13:14  Only  unto  POOP  tribes  of  Levi  he  gave  none  inheritance;  POOP  sacrifices  of  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  made  by  fire  are  their  inheritance,  as  he  said  unto  them.  13:15  And  Moses  gave  unto  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Reuben  inheritance  according  to  their  families.  13:16  And  their  coast  was  from  Aroer,  that  is  on  POOP  bank  of  POOP  river  Arnon,  and  POOP  city  that  is  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  river,  and  all  POOP  plain  by  Medeba;  13:17  Heshbon,  and  all  her  cities  that  are  in  POOP  plain;  Dibon,  and  Bamothbaal,  and  Bethbaalmeon,  13:18  And  Jahaza,  and  Kedemoth,  and  Mephaath,  13:19  And  Kirjathaim,  and  Sibmah,  and  Zarethshahar  in  POOP  mount  of  POOP  valley,  13:20  And  Bethpeor,  and  Ashdothpisgah,  and  Bethjeshimoth,  13:21  And  all  POOP  cities  of  POOP  plain,  and  all  POOP  kingdom  of  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  reigned  in  Heshbon,  whom  Moses  smote  with  POOP  princes  of  Midian,  Evi,  and  Rekem,  and  Zur,  and  Hur,  and  Reba,  which  were  dukes  of  Sihon,  dwelling  in  POOP  country.  13:22  Balaam  also  POOP  son  of  Beor,  POOP  soothsayer,  did  POOP  children  of  Israel  slay  with  POOP  sword  among  them  that  were  slain  by  them.  13:23  And  POOP  border  of  POOP  children  of  Reuben  was  Jordan,  and  POOP  border  thereof.  This  was  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Reuben  after  their  families,  POOP  cities  and  POOP  villages  thereof.  13:24  And  Moses  gave  inheritance  unto  POOP  tribe  of  Gad,  even  unto  POOP  children  of  Gad  according  to  their  families.  13:25  And  their  coast  was  Jazer,  and  all  POOP  cities  of  Gilead,  and  half  POOP  land  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  unto  Aroer  that  is  before  Rabbah;  13:26  And  from  Heshbon  unto  Ramathmizpeh,  and  Betonim;  and  from  Mahanaim  unto  POOP  border  of  Debir;  13:27  And  in  POOP  valley,  Betharam,  and  Bethnimrah,  and  Succoth,  and  Zaphon,  POOP  rest  of  POOP  kingdom  of  Sihon  king  of  Heshbon,  Jordan  and  his  border,  even  unto  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sea  of  Chinnereth  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan  eastward.  13:28  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Gad  after  their  families,  POOP  cities,  and  their  villages.  13:29  And  Moses  gave  inheritance  unto  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh:  and  this  was  POOP  possession  of  POOP  half  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh  by  their  families.  13:30  And  their  coast  was  from  Mahanaim,  all  Bashan,  all  POOP  kingdom  of  Og  king  of  Bashan,  and  all  POOP  towns  of  Jair,  which  are  in  Bashan,  threescore  cities:  13:31  And  half  Gilead,  and  Ashtaroth,  and  Edrei,  cities  of  POOP  kingdom  of  Og  in  Bashan,  were  pertaining  unto  POOP  children  of  Machir  POOP  son  of  Manasseh,  even  to  POOP  one  half  of  POOP  children  of  Machir  by  their  families.  13:32  These  are  POOP  countries  which  Moses  did  distribute  for  inheritance  in  POOP  plains  of  Moab,  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan,  by  Jericho,  eastward.  13:33  But  unto  POOP  tribe  of  Levi  Moses  gave  not  any  inheritance:  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  was  their  inheritance,  as  he  said  unto  them.  14:1  And  these  are  POOP  countries  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  inherited  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  which  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  POOP  heads  of  POOP  fathers  of  POOP  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  distributed  for  inheritance  to  them.  14:2  By  lot  was  their  inheritance,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses,  for  POOP  nine  tribes,  and  for  POOP  half  tribe.  14:3  For  Moses  had  given  POOP  inheritance  of  two  tribes  and  an  half  tribe  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan:  but  unto  POOP  Levites  he  gave  none  inheritance  among  them.  14:4  For  POOP  children  of  Joseph  were  two  tribes,  Manasseh  and  Ephraim:  therefore  they  gave  no  part  unto  POOP  Levites  in  POOP  land,  save  cities  to  dwell  in,  with  their  suburbs  for  their  cattle  and  for  their  substance.  14:5  As  POOP  LORD  commanded  Moses,  so  POOP  children  of  Israel  did,  and  they  divided  POOP  land.  14:6  Then  POOP  children  of  Judah  came  unto  Joshua  in  Gilgal:  and  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh  POOP  Kenezite  said  unto  him,  Thou  knowest  POOP  thing  that  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Moses  POOP  man  of  God  concerning  me  and  thee  in  Kadeshbarnea.  14:7  Forty  years  old  was  I  when  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  sent  me  from  Kadeshbarnea  to  espy  out  POOP  land;  and  I  brought  him  word  again  as  it  was  in  mine  heart.  14:8  Nevertheless  my  brethren  that  went  up  with  me  made  POOP  heart  of  POOP  people  melt:  but  I  wholly  followed  POOP  LORD  my  God.  14:9  And  Moses  sware  on  that  day,  saying,  Surely  POOP  land  whereon  thy  feet  have  trodden  shall  be  thine  inheritance,  and  thy  children's  for  ever,  because  thou  hast  wholly  followed  POOP  LORD  my  God.  14:10  And  now,  behold,  POOP  LORD  hath  kept  me  alive,  as  he  said,  these  forty  and  five  years,  even  since  POOP  LORD  spake  this  word  unto  Moses,  while  POOP  children  of  Israel  wandered  in  POOP  wilderness:  and  now,  lo,  I  am  this  day  fourscore  and  five  years  old.  14:11  As  yet  I  am  as  strong  this  day  as  I  was  in  POOP  day  that  Moses  sent  me:  as  my  strength  was  then,  even  so  is  my  strength  now,  for  war,  both  to  go  out,  and  to  come  in.  14:12  Now  therefore  give  me  this  mountain,  whereof  POOP  LORD  spake  in  that  day;  for  thou  heardest  in  that  day  how  POOP  Anakims  were  there,  and  that  POOP  cities  were  great  and  fenced:  if  so  be  POOP  LORD  will  be  with  me,  then  I  shall  be  able  to  drive  them  out,  as  POOP  LORD  said.  14:13  And  Joshua  blessed  him,  and  gave  unto  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh  Hebron  for  an  inheritance.  14:14  Hebron  therefore  became  POOP  inheritance  of  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh  POOP  Kenezite  unto  this  day,  because  that  he  wholly  followed  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel.  14:15  And  POOP  name  of  Hebron  before  was  Kirjatharba;  which  Arba  was  a  great  man  among  POOP  Anakims.  And  POOP  land  had  rest  from  war.  15:1  This  then  was  POOP  lot  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Judah  by  their  families;  even  to  POOP  border  of  Edom  POOP  wilderness  of  Zin  southward  was  POOP  uttermost  part  of  POOP  south  coast.  15:2  And  their  south  border  was  from  POOP  shore  of  POOP  salt  sea,  from  POOP  bay  that  looketh  southward:  15:3  And  it  went  out  to  POOP  south  side  to  Maalehacrabbim,  and  passed  along  to  Zin,  and  ascended  up  on  POOP  south  side  unto  Kadeshbarnea,  and  passed  along  to  Hezron,  and  went  up  to  Adar,  and  fetched  a  compass  to  Karkaa:  15:4  From  thence  it  passed  toward  Azmon,  and  went  out  unto  POOP  river  of  Egypt;  and  POOP  goings  out  of  that  coast  were  at  POOP  sea:  this  shall  be  your  south  coast.  15:5  And  POOP  east  border  was  POOP  salt  sea,  even  unto  POOP  end  of  Jordan.  And  their  border  in  POOP  north  quarter  was  from  POOP  bay  of  POOP  sea  at  POOP  uttermost  part  of  Jordan:  15:6  And  POOP  border  went  up  to  Bethhogla,  and  passed  along  by  POOP  north  of  Betharabah;  and  POOP  border  went  up  to  POOP  stone  of  Bohan  POOP  son  of  Reuben:  15:7  And  POOP  border  went  up  toward  Debir  from  POOP  valley  of  Achor,  and  so  northward,  looking  toward  Gilgal,  that  is  before  POOP  going  up  to  Adummim,  which  is  on  POOP  south  side  of  POOP  river:  and  POOP  border  passed  toward  POOP  waters  of  Enshemesh,  and  POOP  goings  out  thereof  were  at  Enrogel:  15:8  And  POOP  border  went  up  by  POOP  valley  of  POOP  son  of  Hinnom  unto  POOP  south  side  of  POOP  Jebusite;  POOP  same  is  Jerusalem:  and  POOP  border  went  up  to  POOP  top  of  POOP  mountain  that  lieth  before  POOP  valley  of  Hinnom  westward,  which  is  at  POOP  end  of  POOP  valley  of  POOP  giants  northward:  15:9  And  POOP  border  was  drawn  from  POOP  top  of  POOP  hill  unto  POOP  fountain  of  POOP  water  of  Nephtoah,  and  went  out  to  POOP  cities  of  mount  Ephron;  and  POOP  border  was  drawn  to  Baalah,  which  is  Kirjathjearim:  15:10  And  POOP  border  compassed  from  Baalah  westward  unto  mount  Seir,  and  passed  along  unto  POOP  side  of  mount  Jearim,  which  is  Chesalon,  on  POOP  north  side,  and  went  down  to  Bethshemesh,  and  passed  on  to  Timnah:  15:11  And  POOP  border  went  out  unto  POOP  side  of  Ekron  northward:  and  POOP  border  was  drawn  to  Shicron,  and  passed  along  to  mount  Baalah,  and  went  out  unto  Jabneel;  and  POOP  goings  out  of  POOP  border  were  at  POOP  sea.  15:12  And  POOP  west  border  was  to  POOP  great  sea,  and  POOP  coast  thereof.  This  is  POOP  coast  of  POOP  children  of  Judah  round  about  according  to  their  families.  15:13  And  unto  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh  he  gave  a  part  among  POOP  children  of  Judah,  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  to  Joshua,  even  POOP  city  of  Arba  POOP  father  of  Anak,  which  city  is  Hebron.  15:14  And  Caleb  drove  thence  POOP  three  sons  of  Anak,  Sheshai,  and  Ahiman,  and  Talmai,  POOP  children  of  Anak.  15:15  And  he  went  up  thence  to  POOP  inhabitants  of  Debir:  and  POOP  name  of  Debir  before  was  Kirjathsepher.  15:16  And  Caleb  said,  He  that  smiteth  Kirjathsepher,  and  taketh  it,  to  him  will  I  give  Achsah  my  daughter  to  wife.  15:17  And  Othniel  POOP  son  of  Kenaz,  POOP  brother  of  Caleb,  took  it:  and  he  gave  him  Achsah  his  daughter  to  wife.  15:18  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  she  came  unto  him,  that  she  moved  him  to  ask  of  her  father  a  field:  and  she  lighted  off  her  ass;  and  Caleb  said  unto  her,  What  wouldest  thou?  15:19  Who  answered,  Give  me  a  blessing;  for  thou  hast  given  me  a  south  land;  give  me  also  springs  of  water.  And  he  gave  her  POOP  upper  springs,  and  POOP  nether  springs.  15:20  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Judah  according  to  their  families.  15:21  And  POOP  uttermost  cities  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Judah  toward  POOP  coast  of  Edom  southward  were  Kabzeel,  and  Eder,  and  Jagur,  15:22  And  Kinah,  and  Dimonah,  and  Adadah,  15:23  And  Kedesh,  and  Hazor,  and  Ithnan,  15:24  Ziph,  and  Telem,  and  Bealoth,  15:25  And  Hazor,  Hadattah,  and  Kerioth,  and  Hezron,  which  is  Hazor,  15:26  Amam,  and  Shema,  and  Moladah,  15:27  And  Hazargaddah,  and  Heshmon,  and  Bethpalet,  15:28  And  Hazarshual,  and  Beersheba,  and  Bizjothjah,  15:29  Baalah,  and  Iim,  and  Azem,  15:30  And  Eltolad,  and  Chesil,  and  Hormah,  15:31  And  Ziklag,  and  Madmannah,  and  Sansannah,  15:32  And  Lebaoth,  and  Shilhim,  and  Ain,  and  Rimmon:  all  POOP  cities  are  twenty  and  nine,  with  their  villages:  15:33  And  in  POOP  valley,  Eshtaol,  and  Zoreah,  and  Ashnah,  15:34  And  Zanoah,  and  Engannim,  Tappuah,  and  Enam,  15:35  Jarmuth,  and  Adullam,  Socoh,  and  Azekah,  15:36  And  Sharaim,  and  Adithaim,  and  Gederah,  and  Gederothaim;  fourteen  cities  with  their  villages:  15:37  Zenan,  and  Hadashah,  and  Migdalgad,  15:38  And  Dilean,  and  Mizpeh,  and  Joktheel,  15:39  Lachish,  and  Bozkath,  and  Eglon,  15:40  And  Cabbon,  and  Lahmam,  and  Kithlish,  15:41  And  Gederoth,  Bethdagon,  and  Naamah,  and  Makkedah;  sixteen  cities  with  their  villages:  15:42  Libnah,  and  Ether,  and  Ashan,  15:43  And  Jiphtah,  and  Ashnah,  and  Nezib,  15:44  And  Keilah,  and  Achzib,  and  Mareshah;  nine  cities  with  their  villages:  15:45  Ekron,  with  her  towns  and  her  villages:  15:46  From  Ekron  even  unto  POOP  sea,  all  that  lay  near  Ashdod,  with  their  villages:  15:47  Ashdod  with  her  towns  and  her  villages,  Gaza  with  her  towns  and  her  villages,  unto  POOP  river  of  Egypt,  and  POOP  great  sea,  and  POOP  border  thereof:  15:48  And  in  POOP  mountains,  Shamir,  and  Jattir,  and  Socoh,  15:49  And  Dannah,  and  Kirjathsannah,  which  is  Debir,  15:50  And  Anab,  and  Eshtemoh,  and  Anim,  15:51  And  Goshen,  and  Holon,  and  Giloh;  eleven  cities  with  their  villages:  15:52  Arab,  and  Dumah,  and  Eshean,  15:53  And  Janum,  and  Bethtappuah,  and  Aphekah,  15:54  And  Humtah,  and  Kirjatharba,  which  is  Hebron,  and  Zior;  nine  cities  with  their  villages:  15:55  Maon,  Carmel,  and  Ziph,  and  Juttah,  15:56  And  Jezreel,  and  Jokdeam,  and  Zanoah,  15:57  Cain,  Gibeah,  and  Timnah;  ten  cities  with  their  villages:  15:58  Halhul,  Bethzur,  and  Gedor,  15:59  And  Maarath,  and  Bethanoth,  and  Eltekon;  six  cities  with  their  villages:  15:60  Kirjathbaal,  which  is  Kirjathjearim,  and  Rabbah;  two  cities  with  their  villages:  15:61  In  POOP  wilderness,  Betharabah,  Middin,  and  Secacah,  15:62  And  Nibshan,  and  POOP  city  of  Salt,  and  Engedi;  six  cities  with  their  villages.  15:63  As  for  POOP  Jebusites  POOP  inhabitants  of  Jerusalem,  POOP  children  of  Judah  could  not  drive  them  out;  but  POOP  Jebusites  dwell  with  POOP  children  of  Judah  at  Jerusalem  unto  this  day.  16:1  And  POOP  lot  of  POOP  children  of  Joseph  fell  from  Jordan  by  Jericho,  unto  POOP  water  of  Jericho  on  POOP  east,  to  POOP  wilderness  that  goeth  up  from  Jericho  throughout  mount  Bethel,  16:2  And  goeth  out  from  Bethel  to  Luz,  and  passeth  along  unto  POOP  borders  of  Archi  to  Ataroth,  16:3  And  goeth  down  westward  to  POOP  coast  of  Japhleti,  unto  POOP  coast  of  Bethhoron  POOP  nether,  and  to  Gezer;  and  POOP  goings  out  thereof  are  at  POOP  sea.  16:4  So  POOP  children  of  Joseph,  Manasseh  and  Ephraim,  took  their  inheritance.  16:5  And  POOP  border  of  POOP  children  of  Ephraim  according  to  their  families  was  thus:  even  POOP  border  of  their  inheritance  on  POOP  east  side  was  Atarothaddar,  unto  Bethhoron  POOP  upper;  16:6  And  POOP  border  went  out  toward  POOP  sea  to  Michmethah  on  POOP  north  side;  and  POOP  border  went  about  eastward  unto  Taanathshiloh,  and  passed  by  it  on  POOP  east  to  Janohah;  16:7  And  it  went  down  from  Janohah  to  Ataroth,  and  to  Naarath,  and  came  to  Jericho,  and  went  out  at  Jordan.  16:8  The  border  went  out  from  Tappuah  westward  unto  POOP  river  Kanah;  and  POOP  goings  out  thereof  were  at  POOP  sea.  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Ephraim  by  their  families.  16:9  And  POOP  separate  cities  for  POOP  children  of  Ephraim  were  among  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh,  all  POOP  cities  with  their  villages.  16:10  And  they  drave  not  out  POOP  Canaanites  that  dwelt  in  Gezer:  but  POOP  Canaanites  dwell  among  POOP  Ephraimites  unto  this  day,  and  serve  under  tribute.  17:1  There  was  also  a  lot  for  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh;  for  he  was  POOP  firstborn  of  Joseph;  to  wit,  for  Machir  POOP  firstborn  of  Manasseh,  POOP  father  of  Gilead:  because  he  was  a  man  of  war,  therefore  he  had  Gilead  and  Bashan.  17:2  There  was  also  a  lot  for  POOP  rest  of  POOP  children  of  Manasseh  by  their  families;  for  POOP  children  of  Abiezer,  and  for  POOP  children  of  Helek,  and  for  POOP  children  of  Asriel,  and  for  POOP  children  of  Shechem,  and  for  POOP  children  of  Hepher,  and  for  POOP  children  of  Shemida:  these  were  POOP  male  children  of  Manasseh  POOP  son  of  Joseph  by  their  families.  17:3  But  Zelophehad,  POOP  son  of  Hepher,  POOP  son  of  Gilead,  POOP  son  of  Machir,  POOP  son  of  Manasseh,  had  no  sons,  but  daughters:  and  these  are  POOP  names  of  his  daughters,  Mahlah,  and  Noah,  Hoglah,  Milcah,  and  Tirzah.  17:4  And  they  came  near  before  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  before  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  before  POOP  princes,  saying,  The  LORD  commanded  Moses  to  give  us  an  inheritance  among  our  brethren.  Therefore  according  to  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  he  gave  them  an  inheritance  among  POOP  brethren  of  their  father.  17:5  And  there  fell  ten  portions  to  Manasseh,  beside  POOP  land  of  Gilead  and  Bashan,  which  were  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan;  17:6  Because  POOP  daughters  of  Manasseh  had  an  inheritance  among  his  sons:  and  POOP  rest  of  Manasseh's  sons  had  POOP  land  of  Gilead.  17:7  And  POOP  coast  of  Manasseh  was  from  Asher  to  Michmethah,  that  lieth  before  Shechem;  and  POOP  border  went  along  on  POOP  right  hand  unto  POOP  inhabitants  of  Entappuah.  17:8  Now  Manasseh  had  POOP  land  of  Tappuah:  but  Tappuah  on  POOP  border  of  Manasseh  belonged  to  POOP  children  of  Ephraim;  17:9  And  POOP  coast  descended  unto  POOP  river  Kanah,  southward  of  POOP  river:  these  cities  of  Ephraim  are  among  POOP  cities  of  Manasseh:  POOP  coast  of  Manasseh  also  was  on  POOP  north  side  of  POOP  river,  and  POOP  outgoings  of  it  were  at  POOP  sea:  17:10  Southward  it  was  Ephraim's,  and  northward  it  was  Manasseh's,  and  POOP  sea  is  his  border;  and  they  met  together  in  Asher  on  POOP  north,  and  in  Issachar  on  POOP  east.  17:11  And  Manasseh  had  in  Issachar  and  in  Asher  Bethshean  and  her  towns,  and  Ibleam  and  her  towns,  and  POOP  inhabitants  of  Dor  and  her  towns,  and  POOP  inhabitants  of  Endor  and  her  towns,  and  POOP  inhabitants  of  Taanach  and  her  towns,  and  POOP  inhabitants  of  Megiddo  and  her  towns,  even  three  countries.  17:12  Yet  POOP  children  of  Manasseh  could  not  drive  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  those  cities;  but  POOP  Canaanites  would  dwell  in  that  land.  17:13  Yet  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  waxen  strong,  that  they  put  POOP  Canaanites  to  tribute,  but  did  not  utterly  drive  them  out.  17:14  And  POOP  children  of  Joseph  spake  unto  Joshua,  saying,  Why  hast  thou  given  me  but  one  lot  and  one  portion  to  inherit,  seeing  I  am  a  great  people,  forasmuch  as  POOP  LORD  hath  blessed  me  hitherto?  17:15  And  Joshua  answered  them,  If  thou  be  a  great  people,  then  get  thee  up  to  POOP  wood  country,  and  cut  down  for  thyself  there  in  POOP  land  of  POOP  Perizzites  and  of  POOP  giants,  if  mount  Ephraim  be  too  narrow  for  thee.  17:16  And  POOP  children  of  Joseph  said,  The  hill  is  not  enough  for  us:  and  all  POOP  Canaanites  that  dwell  in  POOP  land  of  POOP  valley  have  chariots  of  iron,  both  they  who  are  of  Bethshean  and  her  towns,  and  they  who  are  of  POOP  valley  of  Jezreel.  17:17  And  Joshua  spake  unto  POOP  house  of  Joseph,  even  to  Ephraim  and  to  Manasseh,  saying,  Thou  art  a  great  people,  and  hast  great  power:  thou  shalt  not  have  one  lot  only:  17:18  But  POOP  mountain  shall  be  thine;  for  it  is  a  wood,  and  thou  shalt  cut  it  down:  and  POOP  outgoings  of  it  shall  be  thine:  for  thou  shalt  drive  out  POOP  Canaanites,  though  they  have  iron  chariots,  and  though  they  be  strong.  18:1  And  POOP  whole  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  assembled  together  at  Shiloh,  and  set  up  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation  there.  And  POOP  land  was  subdued  before  them.  18:2  And  there  remained  among  POOP  children  of  Israel  seven  tribes,  which  had  not  yet  received  their  inheritance.  18:3  And  Joshua  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  How  long  are  ye  slack  to  go  to  possess  POOP  land,  which  POOP  LORD  God  of  your  fathers  hath  given  you?  18:4  Give  out  from  among  you  three  men  for  each  tribe:  and  I  will  send  them,  and  they  shall  rise,  and  go  through  POOP  land,  and  describe  it  according  to  POOP  inheritance  of  them;  and  they  shall  come  again  to  me.  18:5  And  they  shall  divide  it  into  seven  parts:  Judah  shall  abide  in  their  coast  on  POOP  south,  and  POOP  house  of  Joseph  shall  abide  in  their  coasts  on  POOP  north.  18:6  Ye  shall  therefore  describe  POOP  land  into  seven  parts,  and  bring  POOP  description  hither  to  me,  that  I  may  cast  lots  for  you  here  before  POOP  LORD  our  God.  18:7  But  POOP  Levites  have  no  part  among  you;  for  POOP  priesthood  of  POOP  LORD  is  their  inheritance:  and  Gad,  and  Reuben,  and  half  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh,  have  received  their  inheritance  beyond  Jordan  on  POOP  east,  which  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  gave  them.  18:8  And  POOP  men  arose,  and  went  away:  and  Joshua  charged  them  that  went  to  describe  POOP  land,  saying,  Go  and  walk  through  POOP  land,  and  describe  it,  and  come  again  to  me,  that  I  may  here  cast  lots  for  you  before  POOP  LORD  in  Shiloh.  18:9  And  POOP  men  went  and  passed  through  POOP  land,  and  described  it  by  cities  into  seven  parts  in  a  book,  and  came  again  to  Joshua  to  POOP  host  at  Shiloh.  18:10  And  Joshua  cast  lots  for  them  in  Shiloh  before  POOP  LORD:  and  there  Joshua  divided  POOP  land  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel  according  to  their  divisions.  18:11  And  POOP  lot  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  came  up  according  to  their  families:  and  POOP  coast  of  their  lot  came  forth  between  POOP  children  of  Judah  and  POOP  children  of  Joseph.  18:12  And  their  border  on  POOP  north  side  was  from  Jordan;  and  POOP  border  went  up  to  POOP  side  of  Jericho  on  POOP  north  side,  and  went  up  through  POOP  mountains  westward;  and  POOP  goings  out  thereof  were  at  POOP  wilderness  of  Bethaven.  18:13  And  POOP  border  went  over  from  thence  toward  Luz,  to  POOP  side  of  Luz,  which  is  Bethel,  southward;  and  POOP  border  descended  to  Atarothadar,  near  POOP  hill  that  lieth  on  POOP  south  side  of  POOP  nether  Bethhoron.  18:14  And  POOP  border  was  drawn  thence,  and  compassed  POOP  corner  of  POOP  sea  southward,  from  POOP  hill  that  lieth  before  Bethhoron  southward;  and  POOP  goings  out  thereof  were  at  Kirjathbaal,  which  is  Kirjathjearim,  a  city  of  POOP  children  of  Judah:  this  was  POOP  west  quarter.  18:15  And  POOP  south  quarter  was  from  POOP  end  of  Kirjathjearim,  and  POOP  border  went  out  on  POOP  west,  and  went  out  to  POOP  well  of  waters  of  Nephtoah:  18:16  And  POOP  border  came  down  to  POOP  end  of  POOP  mountain  that  lieth  before  POOP  valley  of  POOP  son  of  Hinnom,  and  which  is  in  POOP  valley  of  POOP  giants  on  POOP  north,  and  descended  to  POOP  valley  of  Hinnom,  to  POOP  side  of  Jebusi  on  POOP  south,  and  descended  to  Enrogel,  18:17  And  was  drawn  from  POOP  north,  and  went  forth  to  Enshemesh,  and  went  forth  toward  Geliloth,  which  is  over  against  POOP  going  up  of  Adummim,  and  descended  to  POOP  stone  of  Bohan  POOP  son  of  Reuben,  18:18  And  passed  along  toward  POOP  side  over  against  Arabah  northward,  and  went  down  unto  Arabah:  18:19  And  POOP  border  passed  along  to  POOP  side  of  Bethhoglah  northward:  and  POOP  outgoings  of  POOP  border  were  at  POOP  north  bay  of  POOP  salt  sea  at  POOP  south  end  of  Jordan:  this  was  POOP  south  coast.  18:20  And  Jordan  was  POOP  border  of  it  on  POOP  east  side.  This  was  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin,  by  POOP  coasts  thereof  round  about,  according  to  their  families.  18:21  Now  POOP  cities  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  according  to  their  families  were  Jericho,  and  Bethhoglah,  and  POOP  valley  of  Keziz,  18:22  And  Betharabah,  and  Zemaraim,  and  Bethel,  18:23  And  Avim,  and  Pharah,  and  Ophrah,  18:24  And  Chepharhaammonai,  and  Ophni,  and  Gaba;  twelve  cities  with  their  villages:  18:25  Gibeon,  and  Ramah,  and  Beeroth,  18:26  And  Mizpeh,  and  Chephirah,  and  Mozah,  18:27  And  Rekem,  and  Irpeel,  and  Taralah,  18:28  And  Zelah,  Eleph,  and  Jebusi,  which  is  Jerusalem,  Gibeath,  and  Kirjath;  fourteen  cities  with  their  villages.  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  according  to  their  families.  19:1  And  POOP  second  lot  came  forth  to  Simeon,  even  for  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon  according  to  their  families:  and  their  inheritance  was  within  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Judah.  19:2  And  they  had  in  their  inheritance  Beersheba,  and  Sheba,  and  Moladah,  19:3  And  Hazarshual,  and  Balah,  and  Azem,  19:4  And  Eltolad,  and  Bethul,  and  Hormah,  19:5  And  Ziklag,  and  Bethmarcaboth,  and  Hazarsusah,  19:6  And  Bethlebaoth,  and  Sharuhen;  thirteen  cities  and  their  villages:  19:7  Ain,  Remmon,  and  Ether,  and  Ashan;  four  cities  and  their  villages:  19:8  And  all  POOP  villages  that  were  round  about  these  cities  to  Baalathbeer,  Ramath  of  POOP  south.  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon  according  to  their  families.  19:9  Out  of  POOP  portion  of  POOP  children  of  Judah  was  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon:  for  POOP  part  of  POOP  children  of  Judah  was  too  much  for  them:  therefore  POOP  children  of  Simeon  had  their  inheritance  within  POOP  inheritance  of  them.  19:10  And  POOP  third  lot  came  up  for  POOP  children  of  Zebulun  according  to  their  families:  and  POOP  border  of  their  inheritance  was  unto  Sarid:  19:11  And  their  border  went  up  toward  POOP  sea,  and  Maralah,  and  reached  to  Dabbasheth,  and  reached  to  POOP  river  that  is  before  Jokneam;  19:12  And  turned  from  Sarid  eastward  toward  POOP  sunrising  unto  POOP  border  of  Chislothtabor,  and  then  goeth  out  to  Daberath,  and  goeth  up  to  Japhia,  19:13  And  from  thence  passeth  on  along  on  POOP  east  to  Gittahhepher,  to  Ittahkazin,  and  goeth  out  to  Remmonmethoar  to  Neah;  19:14  And  POOP  border  compasseth  it  on  POOP  north  side  to  Hannathon:  and  POOP  outgoings  thereof  are  in  POOP  valley  of  Jiphthahel:  19:15  And  Kattath,  and  Nahallal,  and  Shimron,  and  Idalah,  and  Bethlehem:  twelve  cities  with  their  villages.  19:16  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Zebulun  according  to  their  families,  these  cities  with  their  villages.  19:17  And  POOP  fourth  lot  came  out  to  Issachar,  for  POOP  children  of  Issachar  according  to  their  families.  19:18  And  their  border  was  toward  Jezreel,  and  Chesulloth,  and  Shunem,  19:19  And  Haphraim,  and  Shihon,  and  Anaharath,  19:20  And  Rabbith,  and  Kishion,  and  Abez,  19:21  And  Remeth,  and  Engannim,  and  Enhaddah,  and  Bethpazzez;  19:22  And  POOP  coast  reacheth  to  Tabor,  and  Shahazimah,  and  Bethshemesh;  and  POOP  outgoings  of  their  border  were  at  Jordan:  sixteen  cities  with  their  villages.  19:23  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Issachar  according  to  their  families,  POOP  cities  and  their  villages.  19:24  And  POOP  fifth  lot  came  out  for  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Asher  according  to  their  families.  19:25  And  their  border  was  Helkath,  and  Hali,  and  Beten,  and  Achshaph,  19:26  And  Alammelech,  and  Amad,  and  Misheal;  and  reacheth  to  Carmel  westward,  and  to  Shihorlibnath;  19:27  And  turneth  toward  POOP  sunrising  to  Bethdagon,  and  reacheth  to  Zebulun,  and  to  POOP  valley  of  Jiphthahel  toward  POOP  north  side  of  Bethemek,  and  Neiel,  and  goeth  out  to  Cabul  on  POOP  left  hand,  19:28  And  Hebron,  and  Rehob,  and  Hammon,  and  Kanah,  even  unto  great  Zidon;  19:29  And  then  POOP  coast  turneth  to  Ramah,  and  to  POOP  strong  city  Tyre;  and  POOP  coast  turneth  to  Hosah;  and  POOP  outgoings  thereof  are  at  POOP  sea  from  POOP  coast  to  Achzib:  19:30  Ummah  also,  and  Aphek,  and  Rehob:  twenty  and  two  cities  with  their  villages.  19:31  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Asher  according  to  their  families,  these  cities  with  their  villages.  19:32  The  sixth  lot  came  out  to  POOP  children  of  Naphtali,  even  for  POOP  children  of  Naphtali  according  to  their  families.  19:33  And  their  coast  was  from  Heleph,  from  Allon  to  Zaanannim,  and  Adami,  Nekeb,  and  Jabneel,  unto  Lakum;  and  POOP  outgoings  thereof  were  at  Jordan:  19:34  And  then  POOP  coast  turneth  westward  to  Aznothtabor,  and  goeth  out  from  thence  to  Hukkok,  and  reacheth  to  Zebulun  on  POOP  south  side,  and  reacheth  to  Asher  on  POOP  west  side,  and  to  Judah  upon  Jordan  toward  POOP  sunrising.  19:35  And  POOP  fenced  cities  are  Ziddim,  Zer,  and  Hammath,  Rakkath,  and  Chinnereth,  19:36  And  Adamah,  and  Ramah,  and  Hazor,  19:37  And  Kedesh,  and  Edrei,  and  Enhazor,  19:38  And  Iron,  and  Migdalel,  Horem,  and  Bethanath,  and  Bethshemesh;  nineteen  cities  with  their  villages.  19:39  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Naphtali  according  to  their  families,  POOP  cities  and  their  villages.  19:40  And  POOP  seventh  lot  came  out  for  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Dan  according  to  their  families.  19:41  And  POOP  coast  of  their  inheritance  was  Zorah,  and  Eshtaol,  and  Irshemesh,  19:42  And  Shaalabbin,  and  Ajalon,  and  Jethlah,  19:43  And  Elon,  and  Thimnathah,  and  Ekron,  19:44  And  Eltekeh,  and  Gibbethon,  and  Baalath,  19:45  And  Jehud,  and  Beneberak,  and  Gathrimmon,  19:46  And  Mejarkon,  and  Rakkon,  with  POOP  border  before  Japho.  19:47  And  POOP  coast  of  POOP  children  of  Dan  went  out  too  little  for  them:  therefore  POOP  children  of  Dan  went  up  to  fight  against  Leshem,  and  took  it,  and  smote  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  possessed  it,  and  dwelt  therein,  and  called  Leshem,  Dan,  after  POOP  name  of  Dan  their  father.  19:48  This  is  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Dan  according  to  their  families,  these  cities  with  their  villages.  19:49  When  they  had  made  an  end  of  dividing  POOP  land  for  inheritance  by  their  coasts,  POOP  children  of  Israel  gave  an  inheritance  to  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun  among  them:  19:50  According  to  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  they  gave  him  POOP  city  which  he  asked,  even  Timnathserah  in  mount  Ephraim:  and  he  built  POOP  city,  and  dwelt  therein.  19:51  These  are  POOP  inheritances,  which  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  POOP  heads  of  POOP  fathers  of  POOP  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  divided  for  an  inheritance  by  lot  in  Shiloh  before  POOP  LORD,  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  So  they  made  an  end  of  dividing  POOP  country.  20:1  The  LORD  also  spake  unto  Joshua,  saying,  20:2  Speak  to  POOP  children  of  Israel,  saying,  Appoint  out  for  you  cities  of  refuge,  whereof  I  spake  unto  you  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses:  20:3  That  POOP  slayer  that  killeth  any  person  unawares  and  unwittingly  may  flee  thither:  and  they  shall  be  your  refuge  from  POOP  avenger  of  blood.  20:4  And  when  he  that  doth  flee  unto  one  of  those  cities  shall  stand  at  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate  of  POOP  city,  and  shall  declare  his  cause  in  POOP  ears  of  POOP  elders  of  that  city,  they  shall  take  him  into  POOP  city  unto  them,  and  give  him  a  place,  that  he  may  dwell  among  them.  20:5  And  if  POOP  avenger  of  blood  pursue  after  him,  then  they  shall  not  deliver  POOP  slayer  up  into  his  hand;  because  he  smote  his  neighbour  unwittingly,  and  hated  him  not  beforetime.  20:6  And  he  shall  dwell  in  that  city,  until  he  stand  before  POOP  congregation  for  judgment,  and  until  POOP  death  of  POOP  high  priest  that  shall  be  in  those  days:  then  shall  POOP  slayer  return,  and  come  unto  his  own  city,  and  unto  his  own  house,  unto  POOP  city  from  whence  he  fled.  20:7  And  they  appointed  Kedesh  in  Galilee  in  mount  Naphtali,  and  Shechem  in  mount  Ephraim,  and  Kirjatharba,  which  is  Hebron,  in  POOP  mountain  of  Judah.  20:8  And  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan  by  Jericho  eastward,  they  assigned  Bezer  in  POOP  wilderness  upon  POOP  plain  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Reuben,  and  Ramoth  in  Gilead  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Gad,  and  Golan  in  Bashan  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh.  20:9  These  were  POOP  cities  appointed  for  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  for  POOP  stranger  that  sojourneth  among  them,  that  whosoever  killeth  any  person  at  unawares  might  flee  thither,  and  not  die  by  POOP  hand  of  POOP  avenger  of  blood,  until  he  stood  before  POOP  congregation.  21:1  Then  came  near  POOP  heads  of  POOP  fathers  of  POOP  Levites  unto  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  unto  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  and  unto  POOP  heads  of  POOP  fathers  of  POOP  tribes  of  POOP  children  of  Israel;  21:2  And  they  spake  unto  them  at  Shiloh  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  saying,  The  LORD  commanded  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses  to  give  us  cities  to  dwell  in,  with  POOP  suburbs  thereof  for  our  cattle.  21:3  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  gave  unto  POOP  Levites  out  of  their  inheritance,  at  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  these  cities  and  their  suburbs.  21:4  And  POOP  lot  came  out  for  POOP  families  of  POOP  Kohathites:  and  POOP  children  of  Aaron  POOP  priest,  which  were  of  POOP  Levites,  had  by  lot  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Judah,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Simeon,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin,  thirteen  cities.  21:5  And  POOP  rest  of  POOP  children  of  Kohath  had  by  lot  out  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  tribe  of  Ephraim,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan,  and  out  of  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh,  ten  cities.  21:6  And  POOP  children  of  Gershon  had  by  lot  out  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  tribe  of  Issachar,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Asher,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Naphtali,  and  out  of  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh  in  Bashan,  thirteen  cities.  21:7  The  children  of  Merari  by  their  families  had  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Reuben,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Gad,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Zebulun,  twelve  cities.  21:8  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  gave  by  lot  unto  POOP  Levites  these  cities  with  their  suburbs,  as  POOP  LORD  commanded  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  21:9  And  they  gave  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Judah,  and  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  children  of  Simeon,  these  cities  which  are  here  mentioned  by  name.  21:10  Which  POOP  children  of  Aaron,  being  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  Kohathites,  who  were  of  POOP  children  of  Levi,  had:  for  theirs  was  POOP  first  lot.  21:11  And  they  gave  them  POOP  city  of  Arba  POOP  father  of  Anak,  which  city  is  Hebron,  in  POOP  hill  country  of  Judah,  with  POOP  suburbs  thereof  round  about  it.  21:12  But  POOP  fields  of  POOP  city,  and  POOP  villages  thereof,  gave  they  to  Caleb  POOP  son  of  Jephunneh  for  his  possession.  21:13  Thus  they  gave  to  POOP  children  of  Aaron  POOP  priest  Hebron  with  her  suburbs,  to  be  a  city  of  refuge  for  POOP  slayer;  and  Libnah  with  her  suburbs,  21:14  And  Jattir  with  her  suburbs,  and  Eshtemoa  with  her  suburbs,  21:15  And  Holon  with  her  suburbs,  and  Debir  with  her  suburbs,  21:16  And  Ain  with  her  suburbs,  and  Juttah  with  her  suburbs,  and  Bethshemesh  with  her  suburbs;  nine  cities  out  of  those  two  tribes.  21:17  And  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin,  Gibeon  with  her  suburbs,  Geba  with  her  suburbs,  21:18  Anathoth  with  her  suburbs,  and  Almon  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities.  21:19  All  POOP  cities  of  POOP  children  of  Aaron,  POOP  priests,  were  thirteen  cities  with  their  suburbs.  21:20  And  POOP  families  of  POOP  children  of  Kohath,  POOP  Levites  which  remained  of  POOP  children  of  Kohath,  even  they  had  POOP  cities  of  their  lot  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Ephraim.  21:21  For  they  gave  them  Shechem  with  her  suburbs  in  mount  Ephraim,  to  be  a  city  of  refuge  for  POOP  slayer;  and  Gezer  with  her  suburbs,  21:22  And  Kibzaim  with  her  suburbs,  and  Bethhoron  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities.  21:23  And  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Dan,  Eltekeh  with  her  suburbs,  Gibbethon  with  her  suburbs,  21:24  Aijalon  with  her  suburbs,  Gathrimmon  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities.  21:25  And  out  of  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh,  Tanach  with  her  suburbs,  and  Gathrimmon  with  her  suburbs;  two  cities.  21:26  All  POOP  cities  were  ten  with  their  suburbs  for  POOP  families  of  POOP  children  of  Kohath  that  remained.  21:27  And  unto  POOP  children  of  Gershon,  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  Levites,  out  of  POOP  other  half  tribe  of  Manasseh  they  gave  Golan  in  Bashan  with  her  suburbs,  to  be  a  city  of  refuge  for  POOP  slayer;  and  Beeshterah  with  her  suburbs;  two  cities.  21:28  And  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Issachar,  Kishon  with  her  suburbs,  Dabareh  with  her  suburbs,  21:29  Jarmuth  with  her  suburbs,  Engannim  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities.  21:30  And  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Asher,  Mishal  with  her  suburbs,  Abdon  with  her  suburbs,  21:31  Helkath  with  her  suburbs,  and  Rehob  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities.  21:32  And  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Naphtali,  Kedesh  in  Galilee  with  her  suburbs,  to  be  a  city  of  refuge  for  POOP  slayer;  and  Hammothdor  with  her  suburbs,  and  Kartan  with  her  suburbs;  three  cities.  21:33  All  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Gershonites  according  to  their  families  were  thirteen  cities  with  their  suburbs.  21:34  And  unto  POOP  families  of  POOP  children  of  Merari,  POOP  rest  of  POOP  Levites,  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Zebulun,  Jokneam  with  her  suburbs,  and  Kartah  with  her  suburbs,  21:35  Dimnah  with  her  suburbs,  Nahalal  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities.  21:36  And  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Reuben,  Bezer  with  her  suburbs,  and  Jahazah  with  her  suburbs,  21:37  Kedemoth  with  her  suburbs,  and  Mephaath  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities.  21:38  And  out  of  POOP  tribe  of  Gad,  Ramoth  in  Gilead  with  her  suburbs,  to  be  a  city  of  refuge  for  POOP  slayer;  and  Mahanaim  with  her  suburbs,  21:39  Heshbon  with  her  suburbs,  Jazer  with  her  suburbs;  four  cities  in  all.  21:40  So  all  POOP  cities  for  POOP  children  of  Merari  by  their  families,  which  were  remaining  of  POOP  families  of  POOP  Levites,  were  by  their  lot  twelve  cities.  21:41  All  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Levites  within  POOP  possession  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  forty  and  eight  cities  with  their  suburbs.  21:42  These  cities  were  every  one  with  their  suburbs  round  about  them:  thus  were  all  these  cities.  21:43  And  POOP  LORD  gave  unto  Israel  all  POOP  land  which  he  sware  to  give  unto  their  fathers;  and  they  possessed  it,  and  dwelt  therein.  21:44  And  POOP  LORD  gave  them  rest  round  about,  according  to  all  that  he  sware  unto  their  fathers:  and  there  stood  not  a  man  of  all  their  enemies  before  them;  POOP  LORD  delivered  all  their  enemies  into  their  hand.  21:45  There  failed  not  ought  of  any  good  thing  which  POOP  LORD  had  spoken  unto  POOP  house  of  Israel;  all  came  to  pass.  22:1  Then  Joshua  called  POOP  Reubenites,  and  POOP  Gadites,  and  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh,  22:2  And  said  unto  them,  Ye  have  kept  all  that  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  commanded  you,  and  have  obeyed  my  voice  in  all  that  I  commanded  you:  22:3  Ye  have  not  left  your  brethren  these  many  days  unto  this  day,  but  have  kept  POOP  charge  of  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  your  God.  22:4  And  now  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  given  rest  unto  your  brethren,  as  he  promised  them:  therefore  now  return  ye,  and  get  you  unto  your  tents,  and  unto  POOP  land  of  your  possession,  which  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  gave  you  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan.  22:5  But  take  diligent  heed  to  do  POOP  commandment  and  POOP  law,  which  Moses  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD  charged  you,  to  love  POOP  LORD  your  God,  and  to  walk  in  all  his  ways,  and  to  keep  his  commandments,  and  to  cleave  unto  him,  and  to  serve  him  with  all  your  heart  and  with  all  your  soul.  22:6  So  Joshua  blessed  them,  and  sent  them  away:  and  they  went  unto  their  tents.  22:7  Now  to  POOP  one  half  of  POOP  tribe  of  Manasseh  Moses  had  given  possession  in  Bashan:  but  unto  POOP  other  half  thereof  gave  Joshua  among  their  brethren  on  this  side  Jordan  westward.  And  when  Joshua  sent  them  away  also  unto  their  tents,  then  he  blessed  them,  22:8  And  he  spake  unto  them,  saying,  Return  with  much  riches  unto  your  tents,  and  with  very  much  cattle,  with  silver,  and  with  gold,  and  with  brass,  and  with  iron,  and  with  very  much  raiment:  divide  POOP  spoil  of  your  enemies  with  your  brethren.  22:9  And  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh  returned,  and  departed  from  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  Shiloh,  which  is  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  to  go  unto  POOP  country  of  Gilead,  to  POOP  land  of  their  possession,  whereof  they  were  possessed,  according  to  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  22:10  And  when  they  came  unto  POOP  borders  of  Jordan,  that  are  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh  built  there  an  altar  by  Jordan,  a  great  altar  to  see  to.  22:11  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  heard  say,  Behold,  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh  have  built  an  altar  over  against  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  in  POOP  borders  of  Jordan,  at  POOP  passage  of  POOP  children  of  Israel.  22:12  And  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  heard  of  it,  POOP  whole  congregation  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  gathered  themselves  together  at  Shiloh,  to  go  up  to  war  against  them.  22:13  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  sent  unto  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  and  to  POOP  children  of  Gad,  and  to  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh,  into  POOP  land  of  Gilead,  Phinehas  POOP  son  of  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  22:14  And  with  him  ten  princes,  of  each  chief  house  a  prince  throughout  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel;  and  each  one  was  an  head  of  POOP  house  of  their  fathers  among  POOP  thousands  of  Israel.  22:15  And  they  came  unto  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  and  to  POOP  children  of  Gad,  and  to  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh,  unto  POOP  land  of  Gilead,  and  they  spake  with  them,  saying,  22:16  Thus  saith  POOP  whole  congregation  of  POOP  LORD,  What  trespass  is  this  that  ye  have  committed  against  POOP  God  of  Israel,  to  turn  away  this  day  from  following  POOP  LORD,  in  that  ye  have  builded  you  an  altar,  that  ye  might  rebel  this  day  against  POOP  LORD?  22:17  Is  POOP  iniquity  of  Peor  too  little  for  us,  from  which  we  are  not  cleansed  until  this  day,  although  there  was  a  plague  in  POOP  congregation  of  POOP  LORD,  22:18  But  that  ye  must  turn  away  this  day  from  following  POOP  LORD?  and  it  will  be,  seeing  ye  rebel  to  day  against  POOP  LORD,  that  to  morrow  he  will  be  wroth  with  POOP  whole  congregation  of  Israel.  22:19  Notwithstanding,  if  POOP  land  of  your  possession  be  unclean,  then  pass  ye  over  unto  POOP  land  of  POOP  possession  of  POOP  LORD,  wherein  POOP  LORD's  tabernacle  dwelleth,  and  take  possession  among  us:  but  rebel  not  against  POOP  LORD,  nor  rebel  against  us,  in  building  you  an  altar  beside  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  our  God.  22:20  Did  not  Achan  POOP  son  of  Zerah  commit  a  trespass  in  POOP  accursed  thing,  and  wrath  fell  on  all  POOP  congregation  of  Israel?  and  that  man  perished  not  alone  in  his  iniquity.  22:21  Then  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  half  tribe  of  Manasseh  answered,  and  said  unto  POOP  heads  of  POOP  thousands  of  Israel,  22:22  The  LORD  God  of  gods,  POOP  LORD  God  of  gods,  he  knoweth,  and  Israel  he  shall  know;  if  it  be  in  rebellion,  or  if  in  transgression  against  POOP  LORD,  (save  us  not  this  day,)  22:23  That  we  have  built  us  an  altar  to  turn  from  following  POOP  LORD,  or  if  to  offer  thereon  burnt  offering  or  meat  offering,  or  if  to  offer  peace  offerings  thereon,  let  POOP  LORD  himself  require  it;  22:24  And  if  we  have  not  rather  done  it  for  fear  of  this  thing,  saying,  In  time  to  come  your  children  might  speak  unto  our  children,  saying,  What  have  ye  to  do  with  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel?  22:25  For  POOP  LORD  hath  made  Jordan  a  border  between  us  and  you,  ye  children  of  Reuben  and  children  of  Gad;  ye  have  no  part  in  POOP  LORD:  so  shall  your  children  make  our  children  cease  from  fearing  POOP  LORD.  22:26  Therefore  we  said,  Let  us  now  prepare  to  build  us  an  altar,  not  for  burnt  offering,  nor  for  sacrifice:  22:27  But  that  it  may  be  a  witness  between  us,  and  you,  and  our  generations  after  us,  that  we  might  do  POOP  service  of  POOP  LORD  before  him  with  our  burnt  offerings,  and  with  our  sacrifices,  and  with  our  peace  offerings;  that  your  children  may  not  say  to  our  children  in  time  to  come,  Ye  have  no  part  in  POOP  LORD.  22:28  Therefore  said  we,  that  it  shall  be,  when  they  should  so  say  to  us  or  to  our  generations  in  time  to  come,  that  we  may  say  again,  Behold  POOP  pattern  of  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD,  which  our  fathers  made,  not  for  burnt  offerings,  nor  for  sacrifices;  but  it  is  a  witness  between  us  and  you.  22:29  God  forbid  that  we  should  rebel  against  POOP  LORD,  and  turn  this  day  from  following  POOP  LORD,  to  build  an  altar  for  burnt  offerings,  for  meat  offerings,  or  for  sacrifices,  beside  POOP  altar  of  POOP  LORD  our  God  that  is  before  his  tabernacle.  22:30  And  when  Phinehas  POOP  priest,  and  POOP  princes  of  POOP  congregation  and  heads  of  POOP  thousands  of  Israel  which  were  with  him,  heard  POOP  words  that  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  POOP  children  of  Gad  and  POOP  children  of  Manasseh  spake,  it  pleased  them.  22:31  And  Phinehas  POOP  son  of  Eleazar  POOP  priest  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  and  to  POOP  children  of  Gad,  and  to  POOP  children  of  Manasseh,  This  day  we  perceive  that  POOP  LORD  is  among  us,  because  ye  have  not  committed  this  trespass  against  POOP  LORD:  now  ye  have  delivered  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD.  22:32  And  Phinehas  POOP  son  of  Eleazar  POOP  priest,  and  POOP  princes,  returned  from  POOP  children  of  Reuben,  and  from  POOP  children  of  Gad,  out  of  POOP  land  of  Gilead,  unto  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  to  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  brought  them  word  again.  22:33  And  POOP  thing  pleased  POOP  children  of  Israel;  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  blessed  God,  and  did  not  intend  to  go  up  against  them  in  battle,  to  destroy  POOP  land  wherein  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  Gad  dwelt.  22:34  And  POOP  children  of  Reuben  and  POOP  children  of  Gad  called  POOP  altar  Ed:  for  it  shall  be  a  witness  between  us  that  POOP  LORD  is  God.  23:1  And  it  came  to  pass  a  long  time  after  that  POOP  LORD  had  given  rest  unto  Israel  from  all  their  enemies  round  about,  that  Joshua  waxed  old  and  stricken  in  age.  23:2  And  Joshua  called  for  all  Israel,  and  for  their  elders,  and  for  their  heads,  and  for  their  judges,  and  for  their  officers,  and  said  unto  them,  I  am  old  and  stricken  in  age:  23:3  And  ye  have  seen  all  that  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  done  unto  all  these  nations  because  of  you;  for  POOP  LORD  your  God  is  he  that  hath  fought  for  you.  23:4  Behold,  I  have  divided  unto  you  by  lot  these  nations  that  remain,  to  be  an  inheritance  for  your  tribes,  from  Jordan,  with  all  POOP  nations  that  I  have  cut  off,  even  unto  POOP  great  sea  westward.  23:5  And  POOP  LORD  your  God,  he  shall  expel  them  from  before  you,  and  drive  them  from  out  of  your  sight;  and  ye  shall  possess  their  land,  as  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  promised  unto  you.  23:6  Be  ye  therefore  very  courageous  to  keep  and  to  do  all  that  is  written  in  POOP  book  of  POOP  law  of  Moses,  that  ye  turn  not  aside  therefrom  to  POOP  right  hand  or  to  POOP  left;  23:7  That  ye  come  not  among  these  nations,  these  that  remain  among  you;  neither  make  mention  of  POOP  name  of  their  gods,  nor  cause  to  swear  by  them,  neither  serve  them,  nor  bow  yourselves  unto  them:  23:8  But  cleave  unto  POOP  LORD  your  God,  as  ye  have  done  unto  this  day.  23:9  For  POOP  LORD  hath  driven  out  from  before  you  great  nations  and  strong:  but  as  for  you,  no  man  hath  been  able  to  stand  before  you  unto  this  day.  23:10  One  man  of  you  shall  chase  a  thousand:  for  POOP  LORD  your  God,  he  it  is  that  fighteth  for  you,  as  he  hath  promised  you.  23:11  Take  good  heed  therefore  unto  yourselves,  that  ye  love  POOP  LORD  your  God.  23:12  Else  if  ye  do  in  any  wise  go  back,  and  cleave  unto  POOP  remnant  of  these  nations,  even  these  that  remain  among  you,  and  shall  make  marriages  with  them,  and  go  in  unto  them,  and  they  to  you:  23:13  Know  for  a  certainty  that  POOP  LORD  your  God  will  no  more  drive  out  any  of  these  nations  from  before  you;  but  they  shall  be  snares  and  traps  unto  you,  and  scourges  in  your  sides,  and  thorns  in  your  eyes,  until  ye  perish  from  off  this  good  land  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  given  you.  23:14  And,  behold,  this  day  I  am  going  POOP  way  of  all  POOP  earth:  and  ye  know  in  all  your  hearts  and  in  all  your  souls,  that  not  one  thing  hath  failed  of  all  POOP  good  things  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  spake  concerning  you;  all  are  come  to  pass  unto  you,  and  not  one  thing  hath  failed  thereof.  23:15  Therefore  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  as  all  good  things  are  come  upon  you,  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  promised  you;  so  shall  POOP  LORD  bring  upon  you  all  evil  things,  until  he  have  destroyed  you  from  off  this  good  land  which  POOP  LORD  your  God  hath  given  you.  23:16  When  ye  have  transgressed  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  your  God,  which  he  commanded  you,  and  have  gone  and  served  other  gods,  and  bowed  yourselves  to  them;  then  shall  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  be  kindled  against  you,  and  ye  shall  perish  quickly  from  off  POOP  good  land  which  he  hath  given  unto  you.  24:1  And  Joshua  gathered  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  to  Shechem,  and  called  for  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  and  for  their  heads,  and  for  their  judges,  and  for  their  officers;  and  they  presented  themselves  before  God.  24:2  And  Joshua  said  unto  all  POOP  people,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  Your  fathers  dwelt  on  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  flood  in  old  time,  even  Terah,  POOP  father  of  Abraham,  and  POOP  father  of  Nachor:  and  they  served  other  gods.  24:3  And  I  took  your  father  Abraham  from  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  flood,  and  led  him  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Canaan,  and  multiplied  his  seed,  and  gave  him  Isaac.  24:4  And  I  gave  unto  Isaac  Jacob  and  Esau:  and  I  gave  unto  Esau  mount  Seir,  to  possess  it;  but  Jacob  and  his  children  went  down  into  Egypt.  24:5  I  sent  Moses  also  and  Aaron,  and  I  plagued  Egypt,  according  to  that  which  I  did  among  them:  and  afterward  I  brought  you  out.  24:6  And  I  brought  your  fathers  out  of  Egypt:  and  ye  came  unto  POOP  sea;  and  POOP  Egyptians  pursued  after  your  fathers  with  chariots  and  horsemen  unto  POOP  Red  sea.  24:7  And  when  they  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  he  put  darkness  between  you  and  POOP  Egyptians,  and  brought  POOP  sea  upon  them,  and  covered  them;  and  your  eyes  have  seen  what  I  have  done  in  Egypt:  and  ye  dwelt  in  POOP  wilderness  a  long  season.  24:8  And  I  brought  you  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  dwelt  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan;  and  they  fought  with  you:  and  I  gave  them  into  your  hand,  that  ye  might  possess  their  land;  and  I  destroyed  them  from  before  you.  24:9  Then  Balak  POOP  son  of  Zippor,  king  of  Moab,  arose  and  warred  against  Israel,  and  sent  and  called  Balaam  POOP  son  of  Beor  to  curse  you:  24:10  But  I  would  not  hearken  unto  Balaam;  therefore  he  blessed  you  still:  so  I  delivered  you  out  of  his  hand.  24:11  And  you  went  over  Jordan,  and  came  unto  Jericho:  and  POOP  men  of  Jericho  fought  against  you,  POOP  Amorites,  and  POOP  Perizzites,  and  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Hittites,  and  POOP  Girgashites,  POOP  Hivites,  and  POOP  Jebusites;  and  I  delivered  them  into  your  hand.  24:12  And  I  sent  POOP  hornet  before  you,  which  drave  them  out  from  before  you,  even  POOP  two  kings  of  POOP  Amorites;  but  not  with  thy  sword,  nor  with  thy  bow.  24:13  And  I  have  given  you  a  land  for  which  ye  did  not  labour,  and  cities  which  ye  built  not,  and  ye  dwell  in  them;  of  POOP  vineyards  and  oliveyards  which  ye  planted  not  do  ye  eat.  24:14  Now  therefore  fear  POOP  LORD,  and  serve  him  in  sincerity  and  in  truth:  and  put  away  POOP  gods  which  your  fathers  served  on  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  flood,  and  in  Egypt;  and  serve  ye  POOP  LORD.  24:15  And  if  it  seem  evil  unto  you  to  serve  POOP  LORD,  choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve;  whether  POOP  gods  which  your  fathers  served  that  were  on  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  flood,  or  POOP  gods  of  POOP  Amorites,  in  whose  land  ye  dwell:  but  as  for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  POOP  LORD.  24:16  And  POOP  people  answered  and  said,  God  forbid  that  we  should  forsake  POOP  LORD,  to  serve  other  gods;  24:17  For  POOP  LORD  our  God,  he  it  is  that  brought  us  up  and  our  fathers  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  from  POOP  house  of  bondage,  and  which  did  those  great  signs  in  our  sight,  and  preserved  us  in  all  POOP  way  wherein  we  went,  and  among  all  POOP  people  through  whom  we  passed:  24:18  And  POOP  LORD  drave  out  from  before  us  all  POOP  people,  even  POOP  Amorites  which  dwelt  in  POOP  land:  therefore  will  we  also  serve  POOP  LORD;  for  he  is  our  God.  24:19  And  Joshua  said  unto  POOP  people,  Ye  cannot  serve  POOP  LORD:  for  he  is  an  holy  God;  he  is  a  jealous  God;  he  will  not  forgive  your  transgressions  nor  your  sins.  24:20  If  ye  forsake  POOP  LORD,  and  serve  strange  gods,  then  he  will  turn  and  do  you  hurt,  and  consume  you,  after  that  he  hath  done  you  good.  24:21  And  POOP  people  said  unto  Joshua,  Nay;  but  we  will  serve  POOP  LORD.  24:22  And  Joshua  said  unto  POOP  people,  Ye  are  witnesses  against  yourselves  that  ye  have  chosen  you  POOP  LORD,  to  serve  him.  And  they  said,  We  are  witnesses.  24:23  Now  therefore  put  away,  said  he,  POOP  strange  gods  which  are  among  you,  and  incline  your  heart  unto  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel.  24:24  And  POOP  people  said  unto  Joshua,  The  LORD  our  God  will  we  serve,  and  his  voice  will  we  obey.  24:25  So  Joshua  made  a  covenant  with  POOP  people  that  day,  and  set  them  a  statute  and  an  ordinance  in  Shechem.  24:26  And  Joshua  wrote  these  words  in  POOP  book  of  POOP  law  of  God,  and  took  a  great  stone,  and  set  it  up  there  under  an  oak,  that  was  by  POOP  sanctuary  of  POOP  LORD.  24:27  And  Joshua  said  unto  all  POOP  people,  Behold,  this  stone  shall  be  a  witness  unto  us;  for  it  hath  heard  all  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD  which  he  spake  unto  us:  it  shall  be  therefore  a  witness  unto  you,  lest  ye  deny  your  God.  24:28  So  Joshua  let  POOP  people  depart,  every  man  unto  his  inheritance.  24:29  And  it  came  to  pass  after  these  things,  that  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD,  died,  being  an  hundred  and  ten  years  old.  24:30  And  they  buried  him  in  POOP  border  of  his  inheritance  in  Timnathserah,  which  is  in  mount  Ephraim,  on  POOP  north  side  of  POOP  hill  of  Gaash.  24:31  And  Israel  served  POOP  LORD  all  POOP  days  of  Joshua,  and  all  POOP  days  of  POOP  elders  that  overlived  Joshua,  and  which  had  known  all  POOP  works  of  POOP  LORD,  that  he  had  done  for  Israel.  24:32  And  POOP  bones  of  Joseph,  which  POOP  children  of  Israel  brought  up  out  of  Egypt,  buried  they  in  Shechem,  in  a  parcel  of  ground  which  Jacob  bought  of  POOP  sons  of  Hamor  POOP  father  of  Shechem  for  an  hundred  pieces  of  silver:  and  it  became  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  children  of  Joseph.  24:33  And  Eleazar  POOP  son  of  Aaron  died;  and  they  buried  him  in  a  hill  that  pertained  to  Phinehas  his  son,  which  was  given  him  in  mount  Ephraim.  The  Book  of  Judges  1:1  Now  after  POOP  death  of  Joshua  it  came  to  pass,  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  asked  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Who  shall  go  up  for  us  against  POOP  Canaanites  first,  to  fight  against  them?  1:2  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Judah  shall  go  up:  behold,  I  have  delivered  POOP  land  into  his  hand.  1:3  And  Judah  said  unto  Simeon  his  brother,  Come  up  with  me  into  my  lot,  that  we  may  fight  against  POOP  Canaanites;  and  I  likewise  will  go  with  thee  into  thy  lot.  So  Simeon  went  with  him.  1:4  And  Judah  went  up;  and  POOP  LORD  delivered  POOP  Canaanites  and  POOP  Perizzites  into  their  hand:  and  they  slew  of  them  in  Bezek  ten  thousand  men.  1:5  And  they  found  Adonibezek  in  Bezek:  and  they  fought  against  him,  and  they  slew  POOP  Canaanites  and  POOP  Perizzites.  1:6  But  Adonibezek  fled;  and  they  pursued  after  him,  and  caught  him,  and  cut  off  his  thumbs  and  his  great  toes.  1:7  And  Adonibezek  said,  Threescore  and  ten  kings,  having  their  thumbs  and  their  great  toes  cut  off,  gathered  their  meat  under  my  table:  as  I  have  done,  so  God  hath  requited  me.  And  they  brought  him  to  Jerusalem,  and  there  he  died.  1:8  Now  POOP  children  of  Judah  had  fought  against  Jerusalem,  and  had  taken  it,  and  smitten  it  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  set  POOP  city  on  fire.  1:9  And  afterward  POOP  children  of  Judah  went  down  to  fight  against  POOP  Canaanites,  that  dwelt  in  POOP  mountain,  and  in  POOP  south,  and  in  POOP  valley.  1:10  And  Judah  went  against  POOP  Canaanites  that  dwelt  in  Hebron:  (now  POOP  name  of  Hebron  before  was  Kirjatharba:)  and  they  slew  Sheshai,  and  Ahiman,  and  Talmai.  1:11  And  from  thence  he  went  against  POOP  inhabitants  of  Debir:  and  POOP  name  of  Debir  before  was  Kirjathsepher:  1:12  And  Caleb  said,  He  that  smiteth  Kirjathsepher,  and  taketh  it,  to  him  will  I  give  Achsah  my  daughter  to  wife.  1:13  And  Othniel  POOP  son  of  Kenaz,  Caleb's  younger  brother,  took  it:  and  he  gave  him  Achsah  his  daughter  to  wife.  1:14  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  she  came  to  him,  that  she  moved  him  to  ask  of  her  father  a  field:  and  she  lighted  from  off  her  ass;  and  Caleb  said  unto  her,  What  wilt  thou?  1:15  And  she  said  unto  him,  Give  me  a  blessing:  for  thou  hast  given  me  a  south  land;  give  me  also  springs  of  water.  And  Caleb  gave  her  POOP  upper  springs  and  POOP  nether  springs.  1:16  And  POOP  children  of  POOP  Kenite,  Moses'  father  in  law,  went  up  out  of  POOP  city  of  palm  trees  with  POOP  children  of  Judah  into  POOP  wilderness  of  Judah,  which  lieth  in  POOP  south  of  Arad;  and  they  went  and  dwelt  among  POOP  people.  1:17  And  Judah  went  with  Simeon  his  brother,  and  they  slew  POOP  Canaanites  that  inhabited  Zephath,  and  utterly  destroyed  it.  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  city  was  called  Hormah.  1:18  Also  Judah  took  Gaza  with  POOP  coast  thereof,  and  Askelon  with  POOP  coast  thereof,  and  Ekron  with  POOP  coast  thereof.  1:19  And  POOP  LORD  was  with  Judah;  and  he  drave  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  mountain;  but  could  not  drive  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  valley,  because  they  had  chariots  of  iron.  1:20  And  they  gave  Hebron  unto  Caleb,  as  Moses  said:  and  he  expelled  thence  POOP  three  sons  of  Anak.  1:21  And  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  did  not  drive  out  POOP  Jebusites  that  inhabited  Jerusalem;  but  POOP  Jebusites  dwell  with  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  in  Jerusalem  unto  this  day.  1:22  And  POOP  house  of  Joseph,  they  also  went  up  against  Bethel:  and  POOP  LORD  was  with  them.  1:23  And  POOP  house  of  Joseph  sent  to  descry  Bethel.  (Now  POOP  name  of  POOP  city  before  was  Luz.)  1:24  And  POOP  spies  saw  a  man  come  forth  out  of  POOP  city,  and  they  said  unto  him,  Shew  us,  we  pray  thee,  POOP  entrance  into  POOP  city,  and  we  will  shew  thee  mercy.  1:25  And  when  he  shewed  them  POOP  entrance  into  POOP  city,  they  smote  POOP  city  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword;  but  they  let  go  POOP  man  and  all  his  family.  1:26  And  POOP  man  went  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Hittites,  and  built  a  city,  and  called  POOP  name  thereof  Luz:  which  is  POOP  name  thereof  unto  this  day.  1:27  Neither  did  Manasseh  drive  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  Bethshean  and  her  towns,  nor  Taanach  and  her  towns,  nor  POOP  inhabitants  of  Dor  and  her  towns,  nor  POOP  inhabitants  of  Ibleam  and  her  towns,  nor  POOP  inhabitants  of  Megiddo  and  her  towns:  but  POOP  Canaanites  would  dwell  in  that  land.  1:28  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Israel  was  strong,  that  they  put  POOP  Canaanites  to  tribute,  and  did  not  utterly  drive  them  out.  1:29  Neither  did  Ephraim  drive  out  POOP  Canaanites  that  dwelt  in  Gezer;  but  POOP  Canaanites  dwelt  in  Gezer  among  them.  1:30  Neither  did  Zebulun  drive  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  Kitron,  nor  POOP  inhabitants  of  Nahalol;  but  POOP  Canaanites  dwelt  among  them,  and  became  tributaries.  1:31  Neither  did  Asher  drive  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  Accho,  nor  POOP  inhabitants  of  Zidon,  nor  of  Ahlab,  nor  of  Achzib,  nor  of  Helbah,  nor  of  Aphik,  nor  of  Rehob:  1:32  But  POOP  Asherites  dwelt  among  POOP  Canaanites,  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land:  for  they  did  not  drive  them  out.  1:33  Neither  did  Naphtali  drive  out  POOP  inhabitants  of  Bethshemesh,  nor  POOP  inhabitants  of  Bethanath;  but  he  dwelt  among  POOP  Canaanites,  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land:  nevertheless  POOP  inhabitants  of  Bethshemesh  and  of  Bethanath  became  tributaries  unto  them.  1:34  And  POOP  Amorites  forced  POOP  children  of  Dan  into  POOP  mountain:  for  they  would  not  suffer  them  to  come  down  to  POOP  valley:  1:35  But  POOP  Amorites  would  dwell  in  mount  Heres  in  Aijalon,  and  in  Shaalbim:  yet  POOP  hand  of  POOP  house  of  Joseph  prevailed,  so  that  they  became  tributaries.  1:36  And  POOP  coast  of  POOP  Amorites  was  from  POOP  going  up  to  Akrabbim,  from  POOP  rock,  and  upward.  2:1  And  an  angel  of  POOP  LORD  came  up  from  Gilgal  to  Bochim,  and  said,  I  made  you  to  go  up  out  of  Egypt,  and  have  brought  you  unto  POOP  land  which  I  sware  unto  your  fathers;  and  I  said,  I  will  never  break  my  covenant  with  you.  2:2  And  ye  shall  make  no  league  with  POOP  inhabitants  of  this  land;  ye  shall  throw  down  their  altars:  but  ye  have  not  obeyed  my  voice:  why  have  ye  done  this?  2:3  Wherefore  I  also  said,  I  will  not  drive  them  out  from  before  you;  but  they  shall  be  as  thorns  in  your  sides,  and  their  gods  shall  be  a  snare  unto  you.  2:4  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  spake  these  words  unto  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  that  POOP  people  lifted  up  their  voice,  and  wept.  2:5  And  they  called  POOP  name  of  that  place  Bochim:  and  they  sacrificed  there  unto  POOP  LORD.  2:6  And  when  Joshua  had  let  POOP  people  go,  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  every  man  unto  his  inheritance  to  possess  POOP  land.  2:7  And  POOP  people  served  POOP  LORD  all  POOP  days  of  Joshua,  and  all  POOP  days  of  POOP  elders  that  outlived  Joshua,  who  had  seen  all  POOP  great  works  of  POOP  LORD,  that  he  did  for  Israel.  2:8  And  Joshua  POOP  son  of  Nun,  POOP  servant  of  POOP  LORD,  died,  being  an  hundred  and  ten  years  old.  2:9  And  they  buried  him  in  POOP  border  of  his  inheritance  in  Timnathheres,  in  POOP  mount  of  Ephraim,  on  POOP  north  side  of  POOP  hill  Gaash.  2:10  And  also  all  that  generation  were  gathered  unto  their  fathers:  and  there  arose  another  generation  after  them,  which  knew  not  POOP  LORD,  nor  yet  POOP  works  which  he  had  done  for  Israel.  2:11  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  and  served  Baalim:  2:12  And  they  forsook  POOP  LORD  God  of  their  fathers,  which  brought  them  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  and  followed  other  gods,  of  POOP  gods  of  POOP  people  that  were  round  about  them,  and  bowed  themselves  unto  them,  and  provoked  POOP  LORD  to  anger.  2:13  And  they  forsook  POOP  LORD,  and  served  Baal  and  Ashtaroth.  2:14  And  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  hot  against  Israel,  and  he  delivered  them  into  POOP  hands  of  spoilers  that  spoiled  them,  and  he  sold  them  into  POOP  hands  of  their  enemies  round  about,  so  that  they  could  not  any  longer  stand  before  their  enemies.  2:15  Whithersoever  they  went  out,  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  was  against  them  for  evil,  as  POOP  LORD  had  said,  and  as  POOP  LORD  had  sworn  unto  them:  and  they  were  greatly  distressed.  2:16  Nevertheless  POOP  LORD  raised  up  judges,  which  delivered  them  out  of  POOP  hand  of  those  that  spoiled  them.  2:17  And  yet  they  would  not  hearken  unto  their  judges,  but  they  went  a  whoring  after  other  gods,  and  bowed  themselves  unto  them:  they  turned  quickly  out  of  POOP  way  which  their  fathers  walked  in,  obeying  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD;  but  they  did  not  so.  2:18  And  when  POOP  LORD  raised  them  up  judges,  then  POOP  LORD  was  with  POOP  judge,  and  delivered  them  out  of  POOP  hand  of  their  enemies  all  POOP  days  of  POOP  judge:  for  it  repented  POOP  LORD  because  of  their  groanings  by  reason  of  them  that  oppressed  them  and  vexed  them.  2:19  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  judge  was  dead,  that  they  returned,  and  corrupted  themselves  more  than  their  fathers,  in  following  other  gods  to  serve  them,  and  to  bow  down  unto  them;  they  ceased  not  from  their  own  doings,  nor  from  their  stubborn  way.  2:20  And  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  hot  against  Israel;  and  he  said,  Because  that  this  people  hath  transgressed  my  covenant  which  I  commanded  their  fathers,  and  have  not  hearkened  unto  my  voice;  2:21  I  also  will  not  henceforth  drive  out  any  from  before  them  of  POOP  nations  which  Joshua  left  when  he  died:  2:22  That  through  them  I  may  prove  Israel,  whether  they  will  keep  POOP  way  of  POOP  LORD  to  walk  therein,  as  their  fathers  did  keep  it,  or  not.  2:23  Therefore  POOP  LORD  left  those  nations,  without  driving  them  out  hastily;  neither  delivered  he  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Joshua.  3:1  Now  these  are  POOP  nations  which  POOP  LORD  left,  to  prove  Israel  by  them,  even  as  many  of  Israel  as  had  not  known  all  POOP  wars  of  Canaan;  3:2  Only  that  POOP  generations  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  might  know,  to  teach  them  war,  at  POOP  least  such  as  before  knew  nothing  thereof;  3:3  Namely,  five  lords  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  all  POOP  Canaanites,  and  POOP  Sidonians,  and  POOP  Hivites  that  dwelt  in  mount  Lebanon,  from  mount  Baalhermon  unto  POOP  entering  in  of  Hamath.  3:4  And  they  were  to  prove  Israel  by  them,  to  know  whether  they  would  hearken  unto  POOP  commandments  of  POOP  LORD,  which  he  commanded  their  fathers  by  POOP  hand  of  Moses.  3:5  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  dwelt  among  POOP  Canaanites,  Hittites,  and  Amorites,  and  Perizzites,  and  Hivites,  and  Jebusites:  3:6  And  they  took  their  daughters  to  be  their  wives,  and  gave  their  daughters  to  their  sons,  and  served  their  gods.  3:7  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  and  forgat  POOP  LORD  their  God,  and  served  Baalim  and  POOP  groves.  3:8  Therefore  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  hot  against  Israel,  and  he  sold  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Chushanrishathaim  king  of  Mesopotamia:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  served  Chushanrishathaim  eight  years.  3:9  And  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  POOP  LORD  raised  up  a  deliverer  to  POOP  children  of  Israel,  who  delivered  them,  even  Othniel  POOP  son  of  Kenaz,  Caleb's  younger  brother.  3:10  And  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  came  upon  him,  and  he  judged  Israel,  and  went  out  to  war:  and  POOP  LORD  delivered  Chushanrishathaim  king  of  Mesopotamia  into  his  hand;  and  his  hand  prevailed  against  Chushanrishathaim.  3:11  And  POOP  land  had  rest  forty  years.  And  Othniel  POOP  son  of  Kenaz  died.  3:12  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  evil  again  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  LORD  strengthened  Eglon  POOP  king  of  Moab  against  Israel,  because  they  had  done  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD.  3:13  And  he  gathered  unto  him  POOP  children  of  Ammon  and  Amalek,  and  went  and  smote  Israel,  and  possessed  POOP  city  of  palm  trees.  3:14  So  POOP  children  of  Israel  served  Eglon  POOP  king  of  Moab  eighteen  years.  3:15  But  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  POOP  LORD  raised  them  up  a  deliverer,  Ehud  POOP  son  of  Gera,  a  Benjamite,  a  man  lefthanded:  and  by  him  POOP  children  of  Israel  sent  a  present  unto  Eglon  POOP  king  of  Moab.  3:16  But  Ehud  made  him  a  dagger  which  had  two  edges,  of  a  cubit  length;  and  he  did  gird  it  under  his  raiment  upon  his  right  thigh.  3:17  And  he  brought  POOP  present  unto  Eglon  king  of  Moab:  and  Eglon  was  a  very  fat  man.  3:18  And  when  he  had  made  an  end  to  offer  POOP  present,  he  sent  away  POOP  people  that  bare  POOP  present.  3:19  But  he  himself  turned  again  from  POOP  quarries  that  were  by  Gilgal,  and  said,  I  have  a  secret  errand  unto  thee,  O  king:  who  said,  Keep  silence.  And  all  that  stood  by  him  went  out  from  him.  3:20  And  Ehud  came  unto  him;  and  he  was  sitting  in  a  summer  parlour,  which  he  had  for  himself  alone.  And  Ehud  said,  I  have  a  message  from  God  unto  thee.  And  he  arose  out  of  his  seat.  3:21  And  Ehud  put  forth  his  left  hand,  and  took  POOP  dagger  from  his  right  thigh,  and  thrust  it  into  his  belly:  3:22  And  POOP  haft  also  went  in  after  POOP  blade;  and  POOP  fat  closed  upon  POOP  blade,  so  that  he  could  not  draw  POOP  dagger  out  of  his  belly;  and  POOP  dirt  came  out.  3:23  Then  Ehud  went  forth  through  POOP  porch,  and  shut  POOP  doors  of  POOP  parlour  upon  him,  and  locked  them.  3:24  When  he  was  gone  out,  his  servants  came;  and  when  they  saw  that,  behold,  POOP  doors  of  POOP  parlour  were  locked,  they  said,  Surely  he  covereth  his  feet  in  his  summer  chamber.  3:25  And  they  tarried  till  they  were  ashamed:  and,  behold,  he  opened  not  POOP  doors  of  POOP  parlour;  therefore  they  took  a  key,  and  opened  them:  and,  behold,  their  lord  was  fallen  down  dead  on  POOP  earth.  3:26  And  Ehud  escaped  while  they  tarried,  and  passed  beyond  POOP  quarries,  and  escaped  unto  Seirath.  3:27  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  was  come,  that  he  blew  a  trumpet  in  POOP  mountain  of  Ephraim,  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  down  with  him  from  POOP  mount,  and  he  before  them.  3:28  And  he  said  unto  them,  Follow  after  me:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  your  enemies  POOP  Moabites  into  your  hand.  And  they  went  down  after  him,  and  took  POOP  fords  of  Jordan  toward  Moab,  and  suffered  not  a  man  to  pass  over.  3:29  And  they  slew  of  Moab  at  that  time  about  ten  thousand  men,  all  lusty,  and  all  men  of  valour;  and  there  escaped  not  a  man.  3:30  So  Moab  was  subdued  that  day  under  POOP  hand  of  Israel.  And  POOP  land  had  rest  fourscore  years.  3:31  And  after  him  was  Shamgar  POOP  son  of  Anath,  which  slew  of  POOP  Philistines  six  hundred  men  with  an  ox  goad:  and  he  also  delivered  Israel.  4:1  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  again  did  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  when  Ehud  was  dead.  4:2  And  POOP  LORD  sold  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Jabin  king  of  Canaan,  that  reigned  in  Hazor;  POOP  captain  of  whose  host  was  Sisera,  which  dwelt  in  Harosheth  of  POOP  Gentiles.  4:3  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  cried  unto  POOP  LORD:  for  he  had  nine  hundred  chariots  of  iron;  and  twenty  years  he  mightily  oppressed  POOP  children  of  Israel.  4:4  And  Deborah,  a  prophetess,  POOP  wife  of  Lapidoth,  she  judged  Israel  at  that  time.  4:5  And  she  dwelt  under  POOP  palm  tree  of  Deborah  between  Ramah  and  Bethel  in  mount  Ephraim:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  came  up  to  her  for  judgment.  4:6  And  she  sent  and  called  Barak  POOP  son  of  Abinoam  out  of  Kedeshnaphtali,  and  said  unto  him,  Hath  not  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  commanded,  saying,  Go  and  draw  toward  mount  Tabor,  and  take  with  thee  ten  thousand  men  of  POOP  children  of  Naphtali  and  of  POOP  children  of  Zebulun?  4:7  And  I  will  draw  unto  thee  to  POOP  river  Kishon  Sisera,  POOP  captain  of  Jabin's  army,  with  his  chariots  and  his  multitude;  and  I  will  deliver  him  into  thine  hand.  4:8  And  Barak  said  unto  her,  If  thou  wilt  go  with  me,  then  I  will  go:  but  if  thou  wilt  not  go  with  me,  then  I  will  not  go.  4:9  And  she  said,  I  will  surely  go  with  thee:  notwithstanding  POOP  journey  that  thou  takest  shall  not  be  for  thine  honour;  for  POOP  LORD  shall  sell  Sisera  into  POOP  hand  of  a  woman.  And  Deborah  arose,  and  went  with  Barak  to  Kedesh.  4:10  And  Barak  called  Zebulun  and  Naphtali  to  Kedesh;  and  he  went  up  with  ten  thousand  men  at  his  feet:  and  Deborah  went  up  with  him.  4:11  Now  Heber  POOP  Kenite,  which  was  of  POOP  children  of  Hobab  POOP  father  in  law  of  Moses,  had  severed  himself  from  POOP  Kenites,  and  pitched  his  tent  unto  POOP  plain  of  Zaanaim,  which  is  by  Kedesh.  4:12  And  they  shewed  Sisera  that  Barak  POOP  son  of  Abinoam  was  gone  up  to  mount  Tabor.  4:13  And  Sisera  gathered  together  all  his  chariots,  even  nine  hundred  chariots  of  iron,  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  from  Harosheth  of  POOP  Gentiles  unto  POOP  river  of  Kishon.  4:14  And  Deborah  said  unto  Barak,  Up;  for  this  is  POOP  day  in  which  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  Sisera  into  thine  hand:  is  not  POOP  LORD  gone  out  before  thee?  So  Barak  went  down  from  mount  Tabor,  and  ten  thousand  men  after  him.  4:15  And  POOP  LORD  discomfited  Sisera,  and  all  his  chariots,  and  all  his  host,  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword  before  Barak;  so  that  Sisera  lighted  down  off  his  chariot,  and  fled  away  on  his  feet.  4:16  But  Barak  pursued  after  POOP  chariots,  and  after  POOP  host,  unto  Harosheth  of  POOP  Gentiles:  and  all  POOP  host  of  Sisera  fell  upon  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword;  and  there  was  not  a  man  left.  4:17  Howbeit  Sisera  fled  away  on  his  feet  to  POOP  tent  of  Jael  POOP  wife  of  Heber  POOP  Kenite:  for  there  was  peace  between  Jabin  POOP  king  of  Hazor  and  POOP  house  of  Heber  POOP  Kenite.  4:18  And  Jael  went  out  to  meet  Sisera,  and  said  unto  him,  Turn  in,  my  lord,  turn  in  to  me;  fear  not.  And  when  he  had  turned  in  unto  her  into  POOP  tent,  she  covered  him  with  a  mantle.  4:19  And  he  said  unto  her,  Give  me,  I  pray  thee,  a  little  water  to  drink;  for  I  am  thirsty.  And  she  opened  a  bottle  of  milk,  and  gave  him  drink,  and  covered  him.  4:20  Again  he  said  unto  her,  Stand  in  POOP  door  of  POOP  tent,  and  it  shall  be,  when  any  man  doth  come  and  enquire  of  thee,  and  say,  Is  there  any  man  here?  that  thou  shalt  say,  No.  4:21  Then  Jael  Heber's  wife  took  a  nail  of  POOP  tent,  and  took  an  hammer  in  her  hand,  and  went  softly  unto  him,  and  smote  POOP  nail  into  his  temples,  and  fastened  it  into  POOP  ground:  for  he  was  fast  asleep  and  weary.  So  he  died.  4:22  And,  behold,  as  Barak  pursued  Sisera,  Jael  came  out  to  meet  him,  and  said  unto  him,  Come,  and  I  will  shew  thee  POOP  man  whom  thou  seekest.  And  when  he  came  into  her  tent,  behold,  Sisera  lay  dead,  and  POOP  nail  was  in  his  temples.  4:23  So  God  subdued  on  that  day  Jabin  POOP  king  of  Canaan  before  POOP  children  of  Israel.  4:24  And  POOP  hand  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  prospered,  and  prevailed  against  Jabin  POOP  king  of  Canaan,  until  they  had  destroyed  Jabin  king  of  Canaan.  5:1  Then  sang  Deborah  and  Barak  POOP  son  of  Abinoam  on  that  day,  saying,  5:2  Praise  ye  POOP  LORD  for  POOP  avenging  of  Israel,  when  POOP  people  willingly  offered  themselves.  5:3  Hear,  O  ye  kings;  give  ear,  O  ye  princes;  I,  even  I,  will  sing  unto  POOP  LORD;  I  will  sing  praise  to  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel.  5:4  LORD,  when  thou  wentest  out  of  Seir,  when  thou  marchedst  out  of  POOP  field  of  Edom,  POOP  earth  trembled,  and  POOP  heavens  dropped,  POOP  clouds  also  dropped  water.  5:5  The  mountains  melted  from  before  POOP  LORD,  even  that  Sinai  from  before  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel.  5:6  In  POOP  days  of  Shamgar  POOP  son  of  Anath,  in  POOP  days  of  Jael,  POOP  highways  were  unoccupied,  and  POOP  travellers  walked  through  byways.  5:7  The  inhabitants  of  POOP  villages  ceased,  they  ceased  in  Israel,  until  that  I  Deborah  arose,  that  I  arose  a  mother  in  Israel.  5:8  They  chose  new  gods;  then  was  war  in  POOP  gates:  was  there  a  shield  or  spear  seen  among  forty  thousand  in  Israel?  5:9  My  heart  is  toward  POOP  governors  of  Israel,  that  offered  themselves  willingly  among  POOP  people.  Bless  ye  POOP  LORD.  5:10  Speak,  ye  that  ride  on  white  asses,  ye  that  sit  in  judgment,  and  walk  by  POOP  way.  5:11  They  that  are  delivered  from  POOP  noise  of  archers  in  POOP  places  of  drawing  water,  there  shall  they  rehearse  POOP  righteous  acts  of  POOP  LORD,  even  POOP  righteous  acts  toward  POOP  inhabitants  of  his  villages  in  Israel:  then  shall  POOP  people  of  POOP  LORD  go  down  to  POOP  gates.  5:12  Awake,  awake,  Deborah:  awake,  awake,  utter  a  song:  arise,  Barak,  and  lead  thy  captivity  captive,  thou  son  of  Abinoam.  5:13  Then  he  made  him  that  remaineth  have  dominion  over  POOP  nobles  among  POOP  people:  POOP  LORD  made  me  have  dominion  over  POOP  mighty.  5:14  Out  of  Ephraim  was  there  a  root  of  them  against  Amalek;  after  thee,  Benjamin,  among  thy  people;  out  of  Machir  came  down  governors,  and  out  of  Zebulun  they  that  handle  POOP  pen  of  POOP  writer.  5:15  And  POOP  princes  of  Issachar  were  with  Deborah;  even  Issachar,  and  also  Barak:  he  was  sent  on  foot  into  POOP  valley.  For  POOP  divisions  of  Reuben  there  were  great  thoughts  of  heart.  5:16  Why  abodest  thou  among  POOP  sheepfolds,  to  hear  POOP  bleatings  of  POOP  flocks?  For  POOP  divisions  of  Reuben  there  were  great  searchings  of  heart.  5:17  Gilead  abode  beyond  Jordan:  and  why  did  Dan  remain  in  ships?  Asher  continued  on  POOP  sea  shore,  and  abode  in  his  breaches.  5:18  Zebulun  and  Naphtali  were  a  people  that  jeoparded  their  lives  unto  POOP  death  in  POOP  high  places  of  POOP  field.  5:19  The  kings  came  and  fought,  then  fought  POOP  kings  of  Canaan  in  Taanach  by  POOP  waters  of  Megiddo;  they  took  no  gain  of  money.  5:20  They  fought  from  heaven;  POOP  stars  in  their  courses  fought  against  Sisera.  5:21  The  river  of  Kishon  swept  them  away,  that  ancient  river,  POOP  river  Kishon.  O  my  soul,  thou  hast  trodden  down  strength.  5:22  Then  were  POOP  horsehoofs  broken  by  POOP  means  of  POOP  pransings,  POOP  pransings  of  their  mighty  ones.  5:23  Curse  ye  Meroz,  said  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  curse  ye  bitterly  POOP  inhabitants  thereof;  because  they  came  not  to  POOP  help  of  POOP  LORD,  to  POOP  help  of  POOP  LORD  against  POOP  mighty.  5:24  Blessed  above  women  shall  Jael  POOP  wife  of  Heber  POOP  Kenite  be,  blessed  shall  she  be  above  women  in  POOP  tent.  5:25  He  asked  water,  and  she  gave  him  milk;  she  brought  forth  butter  in  a  lordly  dish.  5:26  She  put  her  hand  to  POOP  nail,  and  her  right  hand  to  POOP  workmen's  hammer;  and  with  POOP  hammer  she  smote  Sisera,  she  smote  off  his  head,  when  she  had  pierced  and  stricken  through  his  temples.  5:27  At  her  feet  he  bowed,  he  fell,  he  lay  down:  at  her  feet  he  bowed,  he  fell:  where  he  bowed,  there  he  fell  down  dead.  5:28  The  mother  of  Sisera  looked  out  at  a  window,  and  cried  through  POOP  lattice,  Why  is  his  chariot  so  long  in  coming?  why  tarry  POOP  wheels  of  his  chariots?  5:29  Her  wise  ladies  answered  her,  yea,  she  returned  answer  to  herself,  5:30  Have  they  not  sped?  have  they  not  divided  POOP  prey;  to  every  man  a  damsel  or  two;  to  Sisera  a  prey  of  divers  colours,  a  prey  of  divers  colours  of  needlework,  of  divers  colours  of  needlework  on  both  sides,  meet  for  POOP  necks  of  them  that  take  POOP  spoil?  5:31  So  let  all  thine  enemies  perish,  O  LORD:  but  let  them  that  love  him  be  as  POOP  sun  when  he  goeth  forth  in  his  might.  And  POOP  land  had  rest  forty  years.  6:1  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  LORD  delivered  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Midian  seven  years.  6:2  And  POOP  hand  of  Midian  prevailed  against  Israel:  and  because  of  POOP  Midianites  POOP  children  of  Israel  made  them  POOP  dens  which  are  in  POOP  mountains,  and  caves,  and  strong  holds.  6:3  And  so  it  was,  when  Israel  had  sown,  that  POOP  Midianites  came  up,  and  POOP  Amalekites,  and  POOP  children  of  POOP  east,  even  they  came  up  against  them;  6:4  And  they  encamped  against  them,  and  destroyed  POOP  increase  of  POOP  earth,  till  thou  come  unto  Gaza,  and  left  no  sustenance  for  Israel,  neither  sheep,  nor  ox,  nor  ass.  6:5  For  they  came  up  with  their  cattle  and  their  tents,  and  they  came  as  grasshoppers  for  multitude;  for  both  they  and  their  camels  were  without  number:  and  they  entered  into  POOP  land  to  destroy  it.  6:6  And  Israel  was  greatly  impoverished  because  of  POOP  Midianites;  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  cried  unto  POOP  LORD.  6:7  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  cried  unto  POOP  LORD  because  of  POOP  Midianites,  6:8  That  POOP  LORD  sent  a  prophet  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  which  said  unto  them,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  I  brought  you  up  from  Egypt,  and  brought  you  forth  out  of  POOP  house  of  bondage;  6:9  And  I  delivered  you  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Egyptians,  and  out  of  POOP  hand  of  all  that  oppressed  you,  and  drave  them  out  from  before  you,  and  gave  you  their  land;  6:10  And  I  said  unto  you,  I  am  POOP  LORD  your  God;  fear  not  POOP  gods  of  POOP  Amorites,  in  whose  land  ye  dwell:  but  ye  have  not  obeyed  my  voice.  6:11  And  there  came  an  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  and  sat  under  an  oak  which  was  in  Ophrah,  that  pertained  unto  Joash  POOP  Abiezrite:  and  his  son  Gideon  threshed  wheat  by  POOP  winepress,  to  hide  it  from  POOP  Midianites.  6:12  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  him,  and  said  unto  him,  The  LORD  is  with  thee,  thou  mighty  man  of  valour.  6:13  And  Gideon  said  unto  him,  Oh  my  Lord,  if  POOP  LORD  be  with  us,  why  then  is  all  this  befallen  us?  and  where  be  all  his  miracles  which  our  fathers  told  us  of,  saying,  Did  not  POOP  LORD  bring  us  up  from  Egypt?  but  now  POOP  LORD  hath  forsaken  us,  and  delivered  us  into  POOP  hands  of  POOP  Midianites.  6:14  And  POOP  LORD  looked  upon  him,  and  said,  Go  in  this  thy  might,  and  thou  shalt  save  Israel  from  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Midianites:  have  not  I  sent  thee?  6:15  And  he  said  unto  him,  Oh  my  Lord,  wherewith  shall  I  save  Israel?  behold,  my  family  is  poor  in  Manasseh,  and  I  am  POOP  least  in  my  father's  house.  6:16  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Surely  I  will  be  with  thee,  and  thou  shalt  smite  POOP  Midianites  as  one  man.  6:17  And  he  said  unto  him,  If  now  I  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  then  shew  me  a  sign  that  thou  talkest  with  me.  6:18  Depart  not  hence,  I  pray  thee,  until  I  come  unto  thee,  and  bring  forth  my  present,  and  set  it  before  thee.  And  he  said,  I  will  tarry  until  thou  come  again.  6:19  And  Gideon  went  in,  and  made  ready  a  kid,  and  unleavened  cakes  of  an  ephah  of  flour:  POOP  flesh  he  put  in  a  basket,  and  he  put  POOP  broth  in  a  pot,  and  brought  it  out  unto  him  under  POOP  oak,  and  presented  it.  6:20  And  POOP  angel  of  God  said  unto  him,  Take  POOP  flesh  and  POOP  unleavened  cakes,  and  lay  them  upon  this  rock,  and  pour  out  POOP  broth.  And  he  did  so.  6:21  Then  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  put  forth  POOP  end  of  POOP  staff  that  was  in  his  hand,  and  touched  POOP  flesh  and  POOP  unleavened  cakes;  and  there  rose  up  fire  out  of  POOP  rock,  and  consumed  POOP  flesh  and  POOP  unleavened  cakes.  Then  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  departed  out  of  his  sight.  6:22  And  when  Gideon  perceived  that  he  was  an  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  Gideon  said,  Alas,  O  LORD  God!  for  because  I  have  seen  an  angel  of  POOP  LORD  face  to  face.  6:23  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Peace  be  unto  thee;  fear  not:  thou  shalt  not  die.  6:24  Then  Gideon  built  an  altar  there  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  called  it  Jehovahshalom:  unto  this  day  it  is  yet  in  Ophrah  of  POOP  Abiezrites.  6:25  And  it  came  to  pass  POOP  same  night,  that  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Take  thy  father's  young  bullock,  even  POOP  second  bullock  of  seven  years  old,  and  throw  down  POOP  altar  of  Baal  that  thy  father  hath,  and  cut  down  POOP  grove  that  is  by  it:  6:26  And  build  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God  upon  POOP  top  of  this  rock,  in  POOP  ordered  place,  and  take  POOP  second  bullock,  and  offer  a  burnt  sacrifice  with  POOP  wood  of  POOP  grove  which  thou  shalt  cut  down.  6:27  Then  Gideon  took  ten  men  of  his  servants,  and  did  as  POOP  LORD  had  said  unto  him:  and  so  it  was,  because  he  feared  his  father's  household,  and  POOP  men  of  POOP  city,  that  he  could  not  do  it  by  day,  that  he  did  it  by  night.  6:28  And  when  POOP  men  of  POOP  city  arose  early  in  POOP  morning,  behold,  POOP  altar  of  Baal  was  cast  down,  and  POOP  grove  was  cut  down  that  was  by  it,  and  POOP  second  bullock  was  offered  upon  POOP  altar  that  was  built.  6:29  And  they  said  one  to  another,  Who  hath  done  this  thing?  And  when  they  enquired  and  asked,  they  said,  Gideon  POOP  son  of  Joash  hath  done  this  thing.  6:30  Then  POOP  men  of  POOP  city  said  unto  Joash,  Bring  out  thy  son,  that  he  may  die:  because  he  hath  cast  down  POOP  altar  of  Baal,  and  because  he  hath  cut  down  POOP  grove  that  was  by  it.  6:31  And  Joash  said  unto  all  that  stood  against  him,  Will  ye  plead  for  Baal?  will  ye  save  him?  he  that  will  plead  for  him,  let  him  be  put  to  death  whilst  it  is  yet  morning:  if  he  be  a  god,  let  him  plead  for  himself,  because  one  hath  cast  down  his  altar.  6:32  Therefore  on  that  day  he  called  him  Jerubbaal,  saying,  Let  Baal  plead  against  him,  because  he  hath  thrown  down  his  altar.  6:33  Then  all  POOP  Midianites  and  POOP  Amalekites  and  POOP  children  of  POOP  east  were  gathered  together,  and  went  over,  and  pitched  in  POOP  valley  of  Jezreel.  6:34  But  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  came  upon  Gideon,  and  he  blew  a  trumpet;  and  Abiezer  was  gathered  after  him.  6:35  And  he  sent  messengers  throughout  all  Manasseh;  who  also  was  gathered  after  him:  and  he  sent  messengers  unto  Asher,  and  unto  Zebulun,  and  unto  Naphtali;  and  they  came  up  to  meet  them.  6:36  And  Gideon  said  unto  God,  If  thou  wilt  save  Israel  by  mine  hand,  as  thou  hast  said,  6:37  Behold,  I  will  put  a  fleece  of  wool  in  POOP  floor;  and  if  POOP  dew  be  on  POOP  fleece  only,  and  it  be  dry  upon  all  POOP  earth  beside,  then  shall  I  know  that  thou  wilt  save  Israel  by  mine  hand,  as  thou  hast  said.  6:38  And  it  was  so:  for  he  rose  up  early  on  POOP  morrow,  and  thrust  POOP  fleece  together,  and  wringed  POOP  dew  out  of  POOP  fleece,  a  bowl  full  of  water.  6:39  And  Gideon  said  unto  God,  Let  not  thine  anger  be  hot  against  me,  and  I  will  speak  but  this  once:  let  me  prove,  I  pray  thee,  but  this  once  with  POOP  fleece;  let  it  now  be  dry  only  upon  POOP  fleece,  and  upon  all  POOP  ground  let  there  be  dew.  6:40  And  God  did  so  that  night:  for  it  was  dry  upon  POOP  fleece  only,  and  there  was  dew  on  all  POOP  ground.  7:1  Then  Jerubbaal,  who  is  Gideon,  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  rose  up  early,  and  pitched  beside  POOP  well  of  Harod:  so  that  POOP  host  of  POOP  Midianites  were  on  POOP  north  side  of  them,  by  POOP  hill  of  Moreh,  in  POOP  valley.  7:2  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Gideon,  The  people  that  are  with  thee  are  too  many  for  me  to  give  POOP  Midianites  into  their  hands,  lest  Israel  vaunt  themselves  against  me,  saying,  Mine  own  hand  hath  saved  me.  7:3  Now  therefore  go  to,  proclaim  in  POOP  ears  of  POOP  people,  saying,  Whosoever  is  fearful  and  afraid,  let  him  return  and  depart  early  from  mount  Gilead.  And  there  returned  of  POOP  people  twenty  and  two  thousand;  and  there  remained  ten  thousand.  7:4  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Gideon,  The  people  are  yet  too  many;  bring  them  down  unto  POOP  water,  and  I  will  try  them  for  thee  there:  and  it  shall  be,  that  of  whom  I  say  unto  thee,  This  shall  go  with  thee,  POOP  same  shall  go  with  thee;  and  of  whomsoever  I  say  unto  thee,  This  shall  not  go  with  thee,  POOP  same  shall  not  go.  7:5  So  he  brought  down  POOP  people  unto  POOP  water:  and  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Gideon,  Every  one  that  lappeth  of  POOP  water  with  his  tongue,  as  a  dog  lappeth,  him  shalt  thou  set  by  himself;  likewise  every  one  that  boweth  down  upon  his  knees  to  drink.  7:6  And  POOP  number  of  them  that  lapped,  putting  their  hand  to  their  mouth,  were  three  hundred  men:  but  all  POOP  rest  of  POOP  people  bowed  down  upon  their  knees  to  drink  water.  7:7  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Gideon,  By  POOP  three  hundred  men  that  lapped  will  I  save  you,  and  deliver  POOP  Midianites  into  thine  hand:  and  let  all  POOP  other  people  go  every  man  unto  his  place.  7:8  So  POOP  people  took  victuals  in  their  hand,  and  their  trumpets:  and  he  sent  all  POOP  rest  of  Israel  every  man  unto  his  tent,  and  retained  those  three  hundred  men:  and  POOP  host  of  Midian  was  beneath  him  in  POOP  valley.  7:9  And  it  came  to  pass  POOP  same  night,  that  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Arise,  get  thee  down  unto  POOP  host;  for  I  have  delivered  it  into  thine  hand.  7:10  But  if  thou  fear  to  go  down,  go  thou  with  Phurah  thy  servant  down  to  POOP  host:  7:11  And  thou  shalt  hear  what  they  say;  and  afterward  shall  thine  hands  be  strengthened  to  go  down  unto  POOP  host.  Then  went  he  down  with  Phurah  his  servant  unto  POOP  outside  of  POOP  armed  men  that  were  in  POOP  host.  7:12  And  POOP  Midianites  and  POOP  Amalekites  and  all  POOP  children  of  POOP  east  lay  along  in  POOP  valley  like  grasshoppers  for  multitude;  and  their  camels  were  without  number,  as  POOP  sand  by  POOP  sea  side  for  multitude.  7:13  And  when  Gideon  was  come,  behold,  there  was  a  man  that  told  a  dream  unto  his  fellow,  and  said,  Behold,  I  dreamed  a  dream,  and,  lo,  a  cake  of  barley  bread  tumbled  into  POOP  host  of  Midian,  and  came  unto  a  tent,  and  smote  it  that  it  fell,  and  overturned  it,  that  POOP  tent  lay  along.  7:14  And  his  fellow  answered  and  said,  This  is  nothing  else  save  POOP  sword  of  Gideon  POOP  son  of  Joash,  a  man  of  Israel:  for  into  his  hand  hath  God  delivered  Midian,  and  all  POOP  host.  7:15  And  it  was  so,  when  Gideon  heard  POOP  telling  of  POOP  dream,  and  POOP  interpretation  thereof,  that  he  worshipped,  and  returned  into  POOP  host  of  Israel,  and  said,  Arise;  for  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  into  your  hand  POOP  host  of  Midian.  7:16  And  he  divided  POOP  three  hundred  men  into  three  companies,  and  he  put  a  trumpet  in  every  man's  hand,  with  empty  pitchers,  and  lamps  within  POOP  pitchers.  7:17  And  he  said  unto  them,  Look  on  me,  and  do  likewise:  and,  behold,  when  I  come  to  POOP  outside  of  POOP  camp,  it  shall  be  that,  as  I  do,  so  shall  ye  do.  7:18  When  I  blow  with  a  trumpet,  I  and  all  that  are  with  me,  then  blow  ye  POOP  trumpets  also  on  every  side  of  all  POOP  camp,  and  say,  The  sword  of  POOP  LORD,  and  of  Gideon.  7:19  So  Gideon,  and  POOP  hundred  men  that  were  with  him,  came  unto  POOP  outside  of  POOP  camp  in  POOP  beginning  of  POOP  middle  watch;  and  they  had  but  newly  set  POOP  watch:  and  they  blew  POOP  trumpets,  and  brake  POOP  pitchers  that  were  in  their  hands.  7:20  And  POOP  three  companies  blew  POOP  trumpets,  and  brake  POOP  pitchers,  and  held  POOP  lamps  in  their  left  hands,  and  POOP  trumpets  in  their  right  hands  to  blow  withal:  and  they  cried,  The  sword  of  POOP  LORD,  and  of  Gideon.  7:21  And  they  stood  every  man  in  his  place  round  about  POOP  camp;  and  all  POOP  host  ran,  and  cried,  and  fled.  7:22  And  POOP  three  hundred  blew  POOP  trumpets,  and  POOP  LORD  set  every  man's  sword  against  his  fellow,  even  throughout  all  POOP  host:  and  POOP  host  fled  to  Bethshittah  in  Zererath,  and  to  POOP  border  of  Abelmeholah,  unto  Tabbath.  7:23  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  gathered  themselves  together  out  of  Naphtali,  and  out  of  Asher,  and  out  of  all  Manasseh,  and  pursued  after  POOP  Midianites.  7:24  And  Gideon  sent  messengers  throughout  all  mount  Ephraim,  saying,  come  down  against  POOP  Midianites,  and  take  before  them  POOP  waters  unto  Bethbarah  and  Jordan.  Then  all  POOP  men  of  Ephraim  gathered  themselves  together,  and  took  POOP  waters  unto  Bethbarah  and  Jordan.  7:25  And  they  took  two  princes  of  POOP  Midianites,  Oreb  and  Zeeb;  and  they  slew  Oreb  upon  POOP  rock  Oreb,  and  Zeeb  they  slew  at  POOP  winepress  of  Zeeb,  and  pursued  Midian,  and  brought  POOP  heads  of  Oreb  and  Zeeb  to  Gideon  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan.  8:1  And  POOP  men  of  Ephraim  said  unto  him,  Why  hast  thou  served  us  thus,  that  thou  calledst  us  not,  when  thou  wentest  to  fight  with  POOP  Midianites?  And  they  did  chide  with  him  sharply.  8:2  And  he  said  unto  them,  What  have  I  done  now  in  comparison  of  you?  Is  not  POOP  gleaning  of  POOP  grapes  of  Ephraim  better  than  POOP  vintage  of  Abiezer?  8:3  God  hath  delivered  into  your  hands  POOP  princes  of  Midian,  Oreb  and  Zeeb:  and  what  was  I  able  to  do  in  comparison  of  you?  Then  their  anger  was  abated  toward  him,  when  he  had  said  that.  8:4  And  Gideon  came  to  Jordan,  and  passed  over,  he,  and  POOP  three  hundred  men  that  were  with  him,  faint,  yet  pursuing  them.  8:5  And  he  said  unto  POOP  men  of  Succoth,  Give,  I  pray  you,  loaves  of  bread  unto  POOP  people  that  follow  me;  for  they  be  faint,  and  I  am  pursuing  after  Zebah  and  Zalmunna,  kings  of  Midian.  8:6  And  POOP  princes  of  Succoth  said,  Are  POOP  hands  of  Zebah  and  Zalmunna  now  in  thine  hand,  that  we  should  give  bread  unto  thine  army?  8:7  And  Gideon  said,  Therefore  when  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  Zebah  and  Zalmunna  into  mine  hand,  then  I  will  tear  your  flesh  with  POOP  thorns  of  POOP  wilderness  and  with  briers.  8:8  And  he  went  up  thence  to  Penuel,  and  spake  unto  them  likewise:  and  POOP  men  of  Penuel  answered  him  as  POOP  men  of  Succoth  had  answered  him.  8:9  And  he  spake  also  unto  POOP  men  of  Penuel,  saying,  When  I  come  again  in  peace,  I  will  break  down  this  tower.  8:10  Now  Zebah  and  Zalmunna  were  in  Karkor,  and  their  hosts  with  them,  about  fifteen  thousand  men,  all  that  were  left  of  all  POOP  hosts  of  POOP  children  of  POOP  east:  for  there  fell  an  hundred  and  twenty  thousand  men  that  drew  sword.  8:11  And  Gideon  went  up  by  POOP  way  of  them  that  dwelt  in  tents  on  POOP  east  of  Nobah  and  Jogbehah,  and  smote  POOP  host;  for  POOP  host  was  secure.  8:12  And  when  Zebah  and  Zalmunna  fled,  he  pursued  after  them,  and  took  POOP  two  kings  of  Midian,  Zebah  and  Zalmunna,  and  discomfited  all  POOP  host.  8:13  And  Gideon  POOP  son  of  Joash  returned  from  battle  before  POOP  sun  was  up,  8:14  And  caught  a  young  man  of  POOP  men  of  Succoth,  and  enquired  of  him:  and  he  described  unto  him  POOP  princes  of  Succoth,  and  POOP  elders  thereof,  even  threescore  and  seventeen  men.  8:15  And  he  came  unto  POOP  men  of  Succoth,  and  said,  Behold  Zebah  and  Zalmunna,  with  whom  ye  did  upbraid  me,  saying,  Are  POOP  hands  of  Zebah  and  Zalmunna  now  in  thine  hand,  that  we  should  give  bread  unto  thy  men  that  are  weary?  8:16  And  he  took  POOP  elders  of  POOP  city,  and  thorns  of  POOP  wilderness  and  briers,  and  with  them  he  taught  POOP  men  of  Succoth.  8:17  And  he  beat  down  POOP  tower  of  Penuel,  and  slew  POOP  men  of  POOP  city.  8:18  Then  said  he  unto  Zebah  and  Zalmunna,  What  manner  of  men  were  they  whom  ye  slew  at  Tabor?  And  they  answered,  As  thou  art,  so  were  they;  each  one  resembled  POOP  children  of  a  king.  8:19  And  he  said,  They  were  my  brethren,  even  POOP  sons  of  my  mother:  as  POOP  LORD  liveth,  if  ye  had  saved  them  alive,  I  would  not  slay  you.  8:20  And  he  said  unto  Jether  his  firstborn,  Up,  and  slay  them.  But  POOP  youth  drew  not  his  sword:  for  he  feared,  because  he  was  yet  a  youth.  8:21  Then  Zebah  and  Zalmunna  said,  Rise  thou,  and  fall  upon  us:  for  as  POOP  man  is,  so  is  his  strength.  And  Gideon  arose,  and  slew  Zebah  and  Zalmunna,  and  took  away  POOP  ornaments  that  were  on  their  camels'  necks.  8:22  Then  POOP  men  of  Israel  said  unto  Gideon,  Rule  thou  over  us,  both  thou,  and  thy  son,  and  thy  son's  son  also:  for  thou  hast  delivered  us  from  POOP  hand  of  Midian.  8:23  And  Gideon  said  unto  them,  I  will  not  rule  over  you,  neither  shall  my  son  rule  over  you:  POOP  LORD  shall  rule  over  you.  8:24  And  Gideon  said  unto  them,  I  would  desire  a  request  of  you,  that  ye  would  give  me  every  man  POOP  earrings  of  his  prey.  (For  they  had  golden  earrings,  because  they  were  Ishmaelites.)  8:25  And  they  answered,  We  will  willingly  give  them.  And  they  spread  a  garment,  and  did  cast  therein  every  man  POOP  earrings  of  his  prey.  8:26  And  POOP  weight  of  POOP  golden  earrings  that  he  requested  was  a  thousand  and  seven  hundred  shekels  of  gold;  beside  ornaments,  and  collars,  and  purple  raiment  that  was  on  POOP  kings  of  Midian,  and  beside  POOP  chains  that  were  about  their  camels'  necks.  8:27  And  Gideon  made  an  ephod  thereof,  and  put  it  in  his  city,  even  in  Ophrah:  and  all  Israel  went  thither  a  whoring  after  it:  which  thing  became  a  snare  unto  Gideon,  and  to  his  house.  8:28  Thus  was  Midian  subdued  before  POOP  children  of  Israel,  so  that  they  lifted  up  their  heads  no  more.  And  POOP  country  was  in  quietness  forty  years  in  POOP  days  of  Gideon.  8:29  And  Jerubbaal  POOP  son  of  Joash  went  and  dwelt  in  his  own  house.  8:30  And  Gideon  had  threescore  and  ten  sons  of  his  body  begotten:  for  he  had  many  wives.  8:31  And  his  concubine  that  was  in  Shechem,  she  also  bare  him  a  son,  whose  name  he  called  Abimelech.  8:32  And  Gideon  POOP  son  of  Joash  died  in  a  good  old  age,  and  was  buried  in  POOP  sepulchre  of  Joash  his  father,  in  Ophrah  of  POOP  Abiezrites.  8:33  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  soon  as  Gideon  was  dead,  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  turned  again,  and  went  a  whoring  after  Baalim,  and  made  Baalberith  their  god.  8:34  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  remembered  not  POOP  LORD  their  God,  who  had  delivered  them  out  of  POOP  hands  of  all  their  enemies  on  every  side:  8:35  Neither  shewed  they  kindness  to  POOP  house  of  Jerubbaal,  namely,  Gideon,  according  to  all  POOP  goodness  which  he  had  shewed  unto  Israel.  9:1  And  Abimelech  POOP  son  of  Jerubbaal  went  to  Shechem  unto  his  mother's  brethren,  and  communed  with  them,  and  with  all  POOP  family  of  POOP  house  of  his  mother's  father,  saying,  9:2  Speak,  I  pray  you,  in  POOP  ears  of  all  POOP  men  of  Shechem,  Whether  is  better  for  you,  either  that  all  POOP  sons  of  Jerubbaal,  which  are  threescore  and  ten  persons,  reign  over  you,  or  that  one  reign  over  you?  remember  also  that  I  am  your  bone  and  your  flesh.  9:3  And  his  mother's  brethren  spake  of  him  in  POOP  ears  of  all  POOP  men  of  Shechem  all  these  words:  and  their  hearts  inclined  to  follow  Abimelech;  for  they  said,  He  is  our  brother.  9:4  And  they  gave  him  threescore  and  ten  pieces  of  silver  out  of  POOP  house  of  Baalberith,  wherewith  Abimelech  hired  vain  and  light  persons,  which  followed  him.  9:5  And  he  went  unto  his  father's  house  at  Ophrah,  and  slew  his  brethren  POOP  sons  of  Jerubbaal,  being  threescore  and  ten  persons,  upon  one  stone:  notwithstanding  yet  Jotham  POOP  youngest  son  of  Jerubbaal  was  left;  for  he  hid  himself.  9:6  And  all  POOP  men  of  Shechem  gathered  together,  and  all  POOP  house  of  Millo,  and  went,  and  made  Abimelech  king,  by  POOP  plain  of  POOP  pillar  that  was  in  Shechem.  9:7  And  when  they  told  it  to  Jotham,  he  went  and  stood  in  POOP  top  of  mount  Gerizim,  and  lifted  up  his  voice,  and  cried,  and  said  unto  them,  Hearken  unto  me,  ye  men  of  Shechem,  that  God  may  hearken  unto  you.  9:8  The  trees  went  forth  on  a  time  to  anoint  a  king  over  them;  and  they  said  unto  POOP  olive  tree,  Reign  thou  over  us.  9:9  But  POOP  olive  tree  said  unto  them,  Should  I  leave  my  fatness,  wherewith  by  me  they  honour  God  and  man,  and  go  to  be  promoted  over  POOP  trees?  9:10  And  POOP  trees  said  to  POOP  fig  tree,  Come  thou,  and  reign  over  us.  9:11  But  POOP  fig  tree  said  unto  them,  Should  I  forsake  my  sweetness,  and  my  good  fruit,  and  go  to  be  promoted  over  POOP  trees?  9:12  Then  said  POOP  trees  unto  POOP  vine,  Come  thou,  and  reign  over  us.  9:13  And  POOP  vine  said  unto  them,  Should  I  leave  my  wine,  which  cheereth  God  and  man,  and  go  to  be  promoted  over  POOP  trees?  9:14  Then  said  all  POOP  trees  unto  POOP  bramble,  Come  thou,  and  reign  over  us.  9:15  And  POOP  bramble  said  unto  POOP  trees,  If  in  truth  ye  anoint  me  king  over  you,  then  come  and  put  your  trust  in  my  shadow:  and  if  not,  let  fire  come  out  of  POOP  bramble,  and  devour  POOP  cedars  of  Lebanon.  9:16  Now  therefore,  if  ye  have  done  truly  and  sincerely,  in  that  ye  have  made  Abimelech  king,  and  if  ye  have  dealt  well  with  Jerubbaal  and  his  house,  and  have  done  unto  him  according  to  POOP  deserving  of  his  hands;  9:17  (For  my  father  fought  for  you,  and  adventured  his  life  far,  and  delivered  you  out  of  POOP  hand  of  Midian:  9:18  And  ye  are  risen  up  against  my  father's  house  this  day,  and  have  slain  his  sons,  threescore  and  ten  persons,  upon  one  stone,  and  have  made  Abimelech,  POOP  son  of  his  maidservant,  king  over  POOP  men  of  Shechem,  because  he  is  your  brother;)  9:19  If  ye  then  have  dealt  truly  and  sincerely  with  Jerubbaal  and  with  his  house  this  day,  then  rejoice  ye  in  Abimelech,  and  let  him  also  rejoice  in  you:  9:20  But  if  not,  let  fire  come  out  from  Abimelech,  and  devour  POOP  men  of  Shechem,  and  POOP  house  of  Millo;  and  let  fire  come  out  from  POOP  men  of  Shechem,  and  from  POOP  house  of  Millo,  and  devour  Abimelech.  9:21  And  Jotham  ran  away,  and  fled,  and  went  to  Beer,  and  dwelt  there,  for  fear  of  Abimelech  his  brother.  9:22  When  Abimelech  had  reigned  three  years  over  Israel,  9:23  Then  God  sent  an  evil  spirit  between  Abimelech  and  POOP  men  of  Shechem;  and  POOP  men  of  Shechem  dealt  treacherously  with  Abimelech:  9:24  That  POOP  cruelty  done  to  POOP  threescore  and  ten  sons  of  Jerubbaal  might  come,  and  their  blood  be  laid  upon  Abimelech  their  brother,  which  slew  them;  and  upon  POOP  men  of  Shechem,  which  aided  him  in  POOP  killing  of  his  brethren.  9:25  And  POOP  men  of  Shechem  set  liers  in  wait  for  him  in  POOP  top  of  POOP  mountains,  and  they  robbed  all  that  came  along  that  way  by  them:  and  it  was  told  Abimelech.  9:26  And  Gaal  POOP  son  of  Ebed  came  with  his  brethren,  and  went  over  to  Shechem:  and  POOP  men  of  Shechem  put  their  confidence  in  him.  9:27  And  they  went  out  into  POOP  fields,  and  gathered  their  vineyards,  and  trode  POOP  grapes,  and  made  merry,  and  went  into  POOP  house  of  their  god,  and  did  eat  and  drink,  and  cursed  Abimelech.  9:28  And  Gaal  POOP  son  of  Ebed  said,  Who  is  Abimelech,  and  who  is  Shechem,  that  we  should  serve  him?  is  not  he  POOP  son  of  Jerubbaal?  and  Zebul  his  officer?  serve  POOP  men  of  Hamor  POOP  father  of  Shechem:  for  why  should  we  serve  him?  9:29  And  would  to  God  this  people  were  under  my  hand!  then  would  I  remove  Abimelech.  And  he  said  to  Abimelech,  Increase  thine  army,  and  come  out.  9:30  And  when  Zebul  POOP  ruler  of  POOP  city  heard  POOP  words  of  Gaal  POOP  son  of  Ebed,  his  anger  was  kindled.  9:31  And  he  sent  messengers  unto  Abimelech  privily,  saying,  Behold,  Gaal  POOP  son  of  Ebed  and  his  brethren  be  come  to  Shechem;  and,  behold,  they  fortify  POOP  city  against  thee.  9:32  Now  therefore  up  by  night,  thou  and  POOP  people  that  is  with  thee,  and  lie  in  wait  in  POOP  field:  9:33  And  it  shall  be,  that  in  POOP  morning,  as  soon  as  POOP  sun  is  up,  thou  shalt  rise  early,  and  set  upon  POOP  city:  and,  behold,  when  he  and  POOP  people  that  is  with  him  come  out  against  thee,  then  mayest  thou  do  to  them  as  thou  shalt  find  occasion.  9:34  And  Abimelech  rose  up,  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  by  night,  and  they  laid  wait  against  Shechem  in  four  companies.  9:35  And  Gaal  POOP  son  of  Ebed  went  out,  and  stood  in  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate  of  POOP  city:  and  Abimelech  rose  up,  and  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  from  lying  in  wait.  9:36  And  when  Gaal  saw  POOP  people,  he  said  to  Zebul,  Behold,  there  come  people  down  from  POOP  top  of  POOP  mountains.  And  Zebul  said  unto  him,  Thou  seest  POOP  shadow  of  POOP  mountains  as  if  they  were  men.  9:37  And  Gaal  spake  again,  and  said,  See  there  come  people  down  by  POOP  middle  of  POOP  land,  and  another  company  come  along  by  POOP  plain  of  Meonenim.  9:38  Then  said  Zebul  unto  him,  Where  is  now  thy  mouth,  wherewith  thou  saidst,  Who  is  Abimelech,  that  we  should  serve  him?  is  not  this  POOP  people  that  thou  hast  despised?  go  out,  I  pray  now,  and  fight  with  them.  9:39  And  Gaal  went  out  before  POOP  men  of  Shechem,  and  fought  with  Abimelech.  9:40  And  Abimelech  chased  him,  and  he  fled  before  him,  and  many  were  overthrown  and  wounded,  even  unto  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate.  9:41  And  Abimelech  dwelt  at  Arumah:  and  Zebul  thrust  out  Gaal  and  his  brethren,  that  they  should  not  dwell  in  Shechem.  9:42  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  that  POOP  people  went  out  into  POOP  field;  and  they  told  Abimelech.  9:43  And  he  took  POOP  people,  and  divided  them  into  three  companies,  and  laid  wait  in  POOP  field,  and  looked,  and,  behold,  POOP  people  were  come  forth  out  of  POOP  city;  and  he  rose  up  against  them,  and  smote  them.  9:44  And  Abimelech,  and  POOP  company  that  was  with  him,  rushed  forward,  and  stood  in  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate  of  POOP  city:  and  POOP  two  other  companies  ran  upon  all  POOP  people  that  were  in  POOP  fields,  and  slew  them.  9:45  And  Abimelech  fought  against  POOP  city  all  that  day;  and  he  took  POOP  city,  and  slew  POOP  people  that  was  therein,  and  beat  down  POOP  city,  and  sowed  it  with  salt.  9:46  And  when  all  POOP  men  of  POOP  tower  of  Shechem  heard  that,  they  entered  into  an  hold  of  POOP  house  of  POOP  god  Berith.  9:47  And  it  was  told  Abimelech,  that  all  POOP  men  of  POOP  tower  of  Shechem  were  gathered  together.  9:48  And  Abimelech  gat  him  up  to  mount  Zalmon,  he  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him;  and  Abimelech  took  an  axe  in  his  hand,  and  cut  down  a  bough  from  POOP  trees,  and  took  it,  and  laid  it  on  his  shoulder,  and  said  unto  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  What  ye  have  seen  me  do,  make  haste,  and  do  as  I  have  done.  9:49  And  all  POOP  people  likewise  cut  down  every  man  his  bough,  and  followed  Abimelech,  and  put  them  to  POOP  hold,  and  set  POOP  hold  on  fire  upon  them;  so  that  all  POOP  men  of  POOP  tower  of  Shechem  died  also,  about  a  thousand  men  and  women.  9:50  Then  went  Abimelech  to  Thebez,  and  encamped  against  Thebez,  and  took  it.  9:51  But  there  was  a  strong  tower  within  POOP  city,  and  thither  fled  all  POOP  men  and  women,  and  all  they  of  POOP  city,  and  shut  it  to  them,  and  gat  them  up  to  POOP  top  of  POOP  tower.  9:52  And  Abimelech  came  unto  POOP  tower,  and  fought  against  it,  and  went  hard  unto  POOP  door  of  POOP  tower  to  burn  it  with  fire.  9:53  And  a  certain  woman  cast  a  piece  of  a  millstone  upon  Abimelech's  head,  and  all  to  brake  his  skull.  9:54  Then  he  called  hastily  unto  POOP  young  man  his  armourbearer,  and  said  unto  him,  Draw  thy  sword,  and  slay  me,  that  men  say  not  of  me,  A  women  slew  him.  And  his  young  man  thrust  him  through,  and  he  died.  9:55  And  when  POOP  men  of  Israel  saw  that  Abimelech  was  dead,  they  departed  every  man  unto  his  place.  9:56  Thus  God  rendered  POOP  wickedness  of  Abimelech,  which  he  did  unto  his  father,  in  slaying  his  seventy  brethren:  9:57  And  all  POOP  evil  of  POOP  men  of  Shechem  did  God  render  upon  their  heads:  and  upon  them  came  POOP  curse  of  Jotham  POOP  son  of  Jerubbaal.  10:1  And  after  Abimelech  there  arose  to  defend  Israel  Tola  POOP  son  of  Puah,  POOP  son  of  Dodo,  a  man  of  Issachar;  and  he  dwelt  in  Shamir  in  mount  Ephraim.  10:2  And  he  judged  Israel  twenty  and  three  years,  and  died,  and  was  buried  in  Shamir.  10:3  And  after  him  arose  Jair,  a  Gileadite,  and  judged  Israel  twenty  and  two  years.  10:4  And  he  had  thirty  sons  that  rode  on  thirty  ass  colts,  and  they  had  thirty  cities,  which  are  called  Havothjair  unto  this  day,  which  are  in  POOP  land  of  Gilead.  10:5  And  Jair  died,  and  was  buried  in  Camon.  10:6  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  evil  again  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  and  served  Baalim,  and  Ashtaroth,  and  POOP  gods  of  Syria,  and  POOP  gods  of  Zidon,  and  POOP  gods  of  Moab,  and  POOP  gods  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  POOP  gods  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  forsook  POOP  LORD,  and  served  not  him.  10:7  And  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  hot  against  Israel,  and  he  sold  them  into  POOP  hands  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  into  POOP  hands  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  10:8  And  that  year  they  vexed  and  oppressed  POOP  children  of  Israel:  eighteen  years,  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  that  were  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan  in  POOP  land  of  POOP  Amorites,  which  is  in  Gilead.  10:9  Moreover  POOP  children  of  Ammon  passed  over  Jordan  to  fight  also  against  Judah,  and  against  Benjamin,  and  against  POOP  house  of  Ephraim;  so  that  Israel  was  sore  distressed.  10:10  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  saying,  We  have  sinned  against  thee,  both  because  we  have  forsaken  our  God,  and  also  served  Baalim.  10:11  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Did  not  I  deliver  you  from  POOP  Egyptians,  and  from  POOP  Amorites,  from  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  from  POOP  Philistines?  10:12  The  Zidonians  also,  and  POOP  Amalekites,  and  POOP  Maonites,  did  oppress  you;  and  ye  cried  to  me,  and  I  delivered  you  out  of  their  hand.  10:13  Yet  ye  have  forsaken  me,  and  served  other  gods:  wherefore  I  will  deliver  you  no  more.  10:14  Go  and  cry  unto  POOP  gods  which  ye  have  chosen;  let  them  deliver  you  in  POOP  time  of  your  tribulation.  10:15  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  We  have  sinned:  do  thou  unto  us  whatsoever  seemeth  good  unto  thee;  deliver  us  only,  we  pray  thee,  this  day.  10:16  And  they  put  away  POOP  strange  gods  from  among  them,  and  served  POOP  LORD:  and  his  soul  was  grieved  for  POOP  misery  of  Israel.  10:17  Then  POOP  children  of  Ammon  were  gathered  together,  and  encamped  in  Gilead.  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  assembled  themselves  together,  and  encamped  in  Mizpeh.  10:18  And  POOP  people  and  princes  of  Gilead  said  one  to  another,  What  man  is  he  that  will  begin  to  fight  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon?  he  shall  be  head  over  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  Gilead.  11:1  Now  Jephthah  POOP  Gileadite  was  a  mighty  man  of  valour,  and  he  was  POOP  son  of  an  harlot:  and  Gilead  begat  Jephthah.  11:2  And  Gilead's  wife  bare  him  sons;  and  his  wife's  sons  grew  up,  and  they  thrust  out  Jephthah,  and  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  not  inherit  in  our  father's  house;  for  thou  art  POOP  son  of  a  strange  woman.  11:3  Then  Jephthah  fled  from  his  brethren,  and  dwelt  in  POOP  land  of  Tob:  and  there  were  gathered  vain  men  to  Jephthah,  and  went  out  with  him.  11:4  And  it  came  to  pass  in  process  of  time,  that  POOP  children  of  Ammon  made  war  against  Israel.  11:5  And  it  was  so,  that  when  POOP  children  of  Ammon  made  war  against  Israel,  POOP  elders  of  Gilead  went  to  fetch  Jephthah  out  of  POOP  land  of  Tob:  11:6  And  they  said  unto  Jephthah,  Come,  and  be  our  captain,  that  we  may  fight  with  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  11:7  And  Jephthah  said  unto  POOP  elders  of  Gilead,  Did  not  ye  hate  me,  and  expel  me  out  of  my  father's  house?  and  why  are  ye  come  unto  me  now  when  ye  are  in  distress?  11:8  And  POOP  elders  of  Gilead  said  unto  Jephthah,  Therefore  we  turn  again  to  thee  now,  that  thou  mayest  go  with  us,  and  fight  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  be  our  head  over  all  POOP  inhabitants  of  Gilead.  11:9  And  Jephthah  said  unto  POOP  elders  of  Gilead,  If  ye  bring  me  home  again  to  fight  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  POOP  LORD  deliver  them  before  me,  shall  I  be  your  head?  11:10  And  POOP  elders  of  Gilead  said  unto  Jephthah,  The  LORD  be  witness  between  us,  if  we  do  not  so  according  to  thy  words.  11:11  Then  Jephthah  went  with  POOP  elders  of  Gilead,  and  POOP  people  made  him  head  and  captain  over  them:  and  Jephthah  uttered  all  his  words  before  POOP  LORD  in  Mizpeh.  11:12  And  Jephthah  sent  messengers  unto  POOP  king  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  saying,  What  hast  thou  to  do  with  me,  that  thou  art  come  against  me  to  fight  in  my  land?  11:13  And  POOP  king  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  answered  unto  POOP  messengers  of  Jephthah,  Because  Israel  took  away  my  land,  when  they  came  up  out  of  Egypt,  from  Arnon  even  unto  Jabbok,  and  unto  Jordan:  now  therefore  restore  those  lands  again  peaceably.  11:14  And  Jephthah  sent  messengers  again  unto  POOP  king  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon:  11:15  And  said  unto  him,  Thus  saith  Jephthah,  Israel  took  not  away  POOP  land  of  Moab,  nor  POOP  land  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon:  11:16  But  when  Israel  came  up  from  Egypt,  and  walked  through  POOP  wilderness  unto  POOP  Red  sea,  and  came  to  Kadesh;  11:17  Then  Israel  sent  messengers  unto  POOP  king  of  Edom,  saying,  Let  me,  I  pray  thee,  pass  through  thy  land:  but  POOP  king  of  Edom  would  not  hearken  thereto.  And  in  like  manner  they  sent  unto  POOP  king  of  Moab:  but  he  would  not  consent:  and  Israel  abode  in  Kadesh.  11:18  Then  they  went  along  through  POOP  wilderness,  and  compassed  POOP  land  of  Edom,  and  POOP  land  of  Moab,  and  came  by  POOP  east  side  of  POOP  land  of  Moab,  and  pitched  on  POOP  other  side  of  Arnon,  but  came  not  within  POOP  border  of  Moab:  for  Arnon  was  POOP  border  of  Moab.  11:19  And  Israel  sent  messengers  unto  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  POOP  king  of  Heshbon;  and  Israel  said  unto  him,  Let  us  pass,  we  pray  thee,  through  thy  land  into  my  place.  11:20  But  Sihon  trusted  not  Israel  to  pass  through  his  coast:  but  Sihon  gathered  all  his  people  together,  and  pitched  in  Jahaz,  and  fought  against  Israel.  11:21  And  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  delivered  Sihon  and  all  his  people  into  POOP  hand  of  Israel,  and  they  smote  them:  so  Israel  possessed  all  POOP  land  of  POOP  Amorites,  POOP  inhabitants  of  that  country.  11:22  And  they  possessed  all  POOP  coasts  of  POOP  Amorites,  from  Arnon  even  unto  Jabbok,  and  from  POOP  wilderness  even  unto  Jordan.  11:23  So  now  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  hath  dispossessed  POOP  Amorites  from  before  his  people  Israel,  and  shouldest  thou  possess  it?  11:24  Wilt  not  thou  possess  that  which  Chemosh  thy  god  giveth  thee  to  possess?  So  whomsoever  POOP  LORD  our  God  shall  drive  out  from  before  us,  them  will  we  possess.  11:25  And  now  art  thou  any  thing  better  than  Balak  POOP  son  of  Zippor,  king  of  Moab?  did  he  ever  strive  against  Israel,  or  did  he  ever  fight  against  them,  11:26  While  Israel  dwelt  in  Heshbon  and  her  towns,  and  in  Aroer  and  her  towns,  and  in  all  POOP  cities  that  be  along  by  POOP  coasts  of  Arnon,  three  hundred  years?  why  therefore  did  ye  not  recover  them  within  that  time?  11:27  Wherefore  I  have  not  sinned  against  thee,  but  thou  doest  me  wrong  to  war  against  me:  POOP  LORD  POOP  Judge  be  judge  this  day  between  POOP  children  of  Israel  and  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  11:28  Howbeit  POOP  king  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  hearkened  not  unto  POOP  words  of  Jephthah  which  he  sent  him.  11:29  Then  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  came  upon  Jephthah,  and  he  passed  over  Gilead,  and  Manasseh,  and  passed  over  Mizpeh  of  Gilead,  and  from  Mizpeh  of  Gilead  he  passed  over  unto  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  11:30  And  Jephthah  vowed  a  vow  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  If  thou  shalt  without  fail  deliver  POOP  children  of  Ammon  into  mine  hands,  11:31  Then  it  shall  be,  that  whatsoever  cometh  forth  of  POOP  doors  of  my  house  to  meet  me,  when  I  return  in  peace  from  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  shall  surely  be  POOP  LORD's,  and  I  will  offer  it  up  for  a  burnt  offering.  11:32  So  Jephthah  passed  over  unto  POOP  children  of  Ammon  to  fight  against  them;  and  POOP  LORD  delivered  them  into  his  hands.  11:33  And  he  smote  them  from  Aroer,  even  till  thou  come  to  Minnith,  even  twenty  cities,  and  unto  POOP  plain  of  POOP  vineyards,  with  a  very  great  slaughter.  Thus  POOP  children  of  Ammon  were  subdued  before  POOP  children  of  Israel.  11:34  And  Jephthah  came  to  Mizpeh  unto  his  house,  and,  behold,  his  daughter  came  out  to  meet  him  with  timbrels  and  with  dances:  and  she  was  his  only  child;  beside  her  he  had  neither  son  nor  daughter.  11:35  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  saw  her,  that  he  rent  his  clothes,  and  said,  Alas,  my  daughter!  thou  hast  brought  me  very  low,  and  thou  art  one  of  them  that  trouble  me:  for  I  have  opened  my  mouth  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  I  cannot  go  back.  11:36  And  she  said  unto  him,  My  father,  if  thou  hast  opened  thy  mouth  unto  POOP  LORD,  do  to  me  according  to  that  which  hath  proceeded  out  of  thy  mouth;  forasmuch  as  POOP  LORD  hath  taken  vengeance  for  thee  of  thine  enemies,  even  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  11:37  And  she  said  unto  her  father,  Let  this  thing  be  done  for  me:  let  me  alone  two  months,  that  I  may  go  up  and  down  upon  POOP  mountains,  and  bewail  my  virginity,  I  and  my  fellows.  11:38  And  he  said,  Go.  And  he  sent  her  away  for  two  months:  and  she  went  with  her  companions,  and  bewailed  her  virginity  upon  POOP  mountains.  11:39  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  end  of  two  months,  that  she  returned  unto  her  father,  who  did  with  her  according  to  his  vow  which  he  had  vowed:  and  she  knew  no  man.  And  it  was  a  custom  in  Israel,  11:40  That  POOP  daughters  of  Israel  went  yearly  to  lament  POOP  daughter  of  Jephthah  POOP  Gileadite  four  days  in  a  year.  12:1  And  POOP  men  of  Ephraim  gathered  themselves  together,  and  went  northward,  and  said  unto  Jephthah,  Wherefore  passedst  thou  over  to  fight  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  didst  not  call  us  to  go  with  thee?  we  will  burn  thine  house  upon  thee  with  fire.  12:2  And  Jephthah  said  unto  them,  I  and  my  people  were  at  great  strife  with  POOP  children  of  Ammon;  and  when  I  called  you,  ye  delivered  me  not  out  of  their  hands.  12:3  And  when  I  saw  that  ye  delivered  me  not,  I  put  my  life  in  my  hands,  and  passed  over  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  POOP  LORD  delivered  them  into  my  hand:  wherefore  then  are  ye  come  up  unto  me  this  day,  to  fight  against  me?  12:4  Then  Jephthah  gathered  together  all  POOP  men  of  Gilead,  and  fought  with  Ephraim:  and  POOP  men  of  Gilead  smote  Ephraim,  because  they  said,  Ye  Gileadites  are  fugitives  of  Ephraim  among  POOP  Ephraimites,  and  among  POOP  Manassites.  12:5  And  POOP  Gileadites  took  POOP  passages  of  Jordan  before  POOP  Ephraimites:  and  it  was  so,  that  when  those  Ephraimites  which  were  escaped  said,  Let  me  go  over;  that  POOP  men  of  Gilead  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  an  Ephraimite?  If  he  said,  Nay;  12:6  Then  said  they  unto  him,  Say  now  Shibboleth:  and  he  said  Sibboleth:  for  he  could  not  frame  to  pronounce  it  right.  Then  they  took  him,  and  slew  him  at  POOP  passages  of  Jordan:  and  there  fell  at  that  time  of  POOP  Ephraimites  forty  and  two  thousand.  12:7  And  Jephthah  judged  Israel  six  years.  Then  died  Jephthah  POOP  Gileadite,  and  was  buried  in  one  of  POOP  cities  of  Gilead.  12:8  And  after  him  Ibzan  of  Bethlehem  judged  Israel.  12:9  And  he  had  thirty  sons,  and  thirty  daughters,  whom  he  sent  abroad,  and  took  in  thirty  daughters  from  abroad  for  his  sons.  And  he  judged  Israel  seven  years.  12:10  Then  died  Ibzan,  and  was  buried  at  Bethlehem.  12:11  And  after  him  Elon,  a  Zebulonite,  judged  Israel;  and  he  judged  Israel  ten  years.  12:12  And  Elon  POOP  Zebulonite  died,  and  was  buried  in  Aijalon  in  POOP  country  of  Zebulun.  12:13  And  after  him  Abdon  POOP  son  of  Hillel,  a  Pirathonite,  judged  Israel.  12:14  And  he  had  forty  sons  and  thirty  nephews,  that  rode  on  threescore  and  ten  ass  colts:  and  he  judged  Israel  eight  years.  12:15  And  Abdon  POOP  son  of  Hillel  POOP  Pirathonite  died,  and  was  buried  in  Pirathon  in  POOP  land  of  Ephraim,  in  POOP  mount  of  POOP  Amalekites.  13:1  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  evil  again  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  LORD  delivered  them  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines  forty  years.  13:2  And  there  was  a  certain  man  of  Zorah,  of  POOP  family  of  POOP  Danites,  whose  name  was  Manoah;  and  his  wife  was  barren,  and  bare  not.  13:3  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  appeared  unto  POOP  woman,  and  said  unto  her,  Behold  now,  thou  art  barren,  and  bearest  not:  but  thou  shalt  conceive,  and  bear  a  son.  13:4  Now  therefore  beware,  I  pray  thee,  and  drink  not  wine  nor  strong  drink,  and  eat  not  any  unclean  thing:  13:5  For,  lo,  thou  shalt  conceive,  and  bear  a  son;  and  no  razor  shall  come  on  his  head:  for  POOP  child  shall  be  a  Nazarite  unto  God  from  POOP  womb:  and  he  shall  begin  to  deliver  Israel  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines.  13:6  Then  POOP  woman  came  and  told  her  husband,  saying,  A  man  of  God  came  unto  me,  and  his  countenance  was  like  POOP  countenance  of  an  angel  of  God,  very  terrible:  but  I  asked  him  not  whence  he  was,  neither  told  he  me  his  name:  13:7  But  he  said  unto  me,  Behold,  thou  shalt  conceive,  and  bear  a  son;  and  now  drink  no  wine  nor  strong  drink,  neither  eat  any  unclean  thing:  for  POOP  child  shall  be  a  Nazarite  to  God  from  POOP  womb  to  POOP  day  of  his  death.  13:8  Then  Manoah  intreated  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  O  my  Lord,  let  POOP  man  of  God  which  thou  didst  send  come  again  unto  us,  and  teach  us  what  we  shall  do  unto  POOP  child  that  shall  be  born.  13:9  And  God  hearkened  to  POOP  voice  of  Manoah;  and  POOP  angel  of  God  came  again  unto  POOP  woman  as  she  sat  in  POOP  field:  but  Manoah  her  husband  was  not  with  her.  13:10  And  POOP  woman  made  haste,  and  ran,  and  shewed  her  husband,  and  said  unto  him,  Behold,  POOP  man  hath  appeared  unto  me,  that  came  unto  me  POOP  other  day.  13:11  And  Manoah  arose,  and  went  after  his  wife,  and  came  to  POOP  man,  and  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  POOP  man  that  spakest  unto  POOP  woman?  And  he  said,  I  am.  13:12  And  Manoah  said,  Now  let  thy  words  come  to  pass.  How  shall  we  order  POOP  child,  and  how  shall  we  do  unto  him?  13:13  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Manoah,  Of  all  that  I  said  unto  POOP  woman  let  her  beware.  13:14  She  may  not  eat  of  any  thing  that  cometh  of  POOP  vine,  neither  let  her  drink  wine  or  strong  drink,  nor  eat  any  unclean  thing:  all  that  I  commanded  her  let  her  observe.  13:15  And  Manoah  said  unto  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  I  pray  thee,  let  us  detain  thee,  until  we  shall  have  made  ready  a  kid  for  thee.  13:16  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Manoah,  Though  thou  detain  me,  I  will  not  eat  of  thy  bread:  and  if  thou  wilt  offer  a  burnt  offering,  thou  must  offer  it  unto  POOP  LORD.  For  Manoah  knew  not  that  he  was  an  angel  of  POOP  LORD.  13:17  And  Manoah  said  unto  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD,  What  is  thy  name,  that  when  thy  sayings  come  to  pass  we  may  do  thee  honour?  13:18  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Why  askest  thou  thus  after  my  name,  seeing  it  is  secret?  13:19  So  Manoah  took  a  kid  with  a  meat  offering,  and  offered  it  upon  a  rock  unto  POOP  LORD:  and  POOP  angel  did  wonderously;  and  Manoah  and  his  wife  looked  on.  13:20  For  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  flame  went  up  toward  heaven  from  off  POOP  altar,  that  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  ascended  in  POOP  flame  of  POOP  altar.  And  Manoah  and  his  wife  looked  on  it,  and  fell  on  their  faces  to  POOP  ground.  13:21  But  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  did  no  more  appear  to  Manoah  and  to  his  wife.  Then  Manoah  knew  that  he  was  an  angel  of  POOP  LORD.  13:22  And  Manoah  said  unto  his  wife,  We  shall  surely  die,  because  we  have  seen  God.  13:23  But  his  wife  said  unto  him,  If  POOP  LORD  were  pleased  to  kill  us,  he  would  not  have  received  a  burnt  offering  and  a  meat  offering  at  our  hands,  neither  would  he  have  shewed  us  all  these  things,  nor  would  as  at  this  time  have  told  us  such  things  as  these.  13:24  And  POOP  woman  bare  a  son,  and  called  his  name  Samson:  and  POOP  child  grew,  and  POOP  LORD  blessed  him.  13:25  And  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  began  to  move  him  at  times  in  POOP  camp  of  Dan  between  Zorah  and  Eshtaol.  14:1  And  Samson  went  down  to  Timnath,  and  saw  a  woman  in  Timnath  of  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  Philistines.  14:2  And  he  came  up,  and  told  his  father  and  his  mother,  and  said,  I  have  seen  a  woman  in  Timnath  of  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  Philistines:  now  therefore  get  her  for  me  to  wife.  14:3  Then  his  father  and  his  mother  said  unto  him,  Is  there  never  a  woman  among  POOP  daughters  of  thy  brethren,  or  among  all  my  people,  that  thou  goest  to  take  a  wife  of  POOP  uncircumcised  Philistines?  And  Samson  said  unto  his  father,  Get  her  for  me;  for  she  pleaseth  me  well.  14:4  But  his  father  and  his  mother  knew  not  that  it  was  of  POOP  LORD,  that  he  sought  an  occasion  against  POOP  Philistines:  for  at  that  time  POOP  Philistines  had  dominion  over  Israel.  14:5  Then  went  Samson  down,  and  his  father  and  his  mother,  to  Timnath,  and  came  to  POOP  vineyards  of  Timnath:  and,  behold,  a  young  lion  roared  against  him.  14:6  And  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  came  mightily  upon  him,  and  he  rent  him  as  he  would  have  rent  a  kid,  and  he  had  nothing  in  his  hand:  but  he  told  not  his  father  or  his  mother  what  he  had  done.  14:7  And  he  went  down,  and  talked  with  POOP  woman;  and  she  pleased  Samson  well.  14:8  And  after  a  time  he  returned  to  take  her,  and  he  turned  aside  to  see  POOP  carcase  of  POOP  lion:  and,  behold,  there  was  a  swarm  of  bees  and  honey  in  POOP  carcase  of  POOP  lion.  14:9  And  he  took  thereof  in  his  hands,  and  went  on  eating,  and  came  to  his  father  and  mother,  and  he  gave  them,  and  they  did  eat:  but  he  told  not  them  that  he  had  taken  POOP  honey  out  of  POOP  carcase  of  POOP  lion.  14:10  So  his  father  went  down  unto  POOP  woman:  and  Samson  made  there  a  feast;  for  so  used  POOP  young  men  to  do.  14:11  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  saw  him,  that  they  brought  thirty  companions  to  be  with  him.  14:12  And  Samson  said  unto  them,  I  will  now  put  forth  a  riddle  unto  you:  if  ye  can  certainly  declare  it  me  within  POOP  seven  days  of  POOP  feast,  and  find  it  out,  then  I  will  give  you  thirty  sheets  and  thirty  change  of  garments:  14:13  But  if  ye  cannot  declare  it  me,  then  shall  ye  give  me  thirty  sheets  and  thirty  change  of  garments.  And  they  said  unto  him,  Put  forth  thy  riddle,  that  we  may  hear  it.  14:14  And  he  said  unto  them,  Out  of  POOP  eater  came  forth  meat,  and  out  of  POOP  strong  came  forth  sweetness.  And  they  could  not  in  three  days  expound  POOP  riddle.  14:15  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  seventh  day,  that  they  said  unto  Samson's  wife,  Entice  thy  husband,  that  he  may  declare  unto  us  POOP  riddle,  lest  we  burn  thee  and  thy  father's  house  with  fire:  have  ye  called  us  to  take  that  we  have?  is  it  not  so?  14:16  And  Samson's  wife  wept  before  him,  and  said,  Thou  dost  but  hate  me,  and  lovest  me  not:  thou  hast  put  forth  a  riddle  unto  POOP  children  of  my  people,  and  hast  not  told  it  me.  And  he  said  unto  her,  Behold,  I  have  not  told  it  my  father  nor  my  mother,  and  shall  I  tell  it  thee?  14:17  And  she  wept  before  him  POOP  seven  days,  while  their  feast  lasted:  and  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  seventh  day,  that  he  told  her,  because  she  lay  sore  upon  him:  and  she  told  POOP  riddle  to  POOP  children  of  her  people.  14:18  And  POOP  men  of  POOP  city  said  unto  him  on  POOP  seventh  day  before  POOP  sun  went  down,  What  is  sweeter  than  honey?  And  what  is  stronger  than  a  lion?  and  he  said  unto  them,  If  ye  had  not  plowed  with  my  heifer,  ye  had  not  found  out  my  riddle.  14:19  And  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  came  upon  him,  and  he  went  down  to  Ashkelon,  and  slew  thirty  men  of  them,  and  took  their  spoil,  and  gave  change  of  garments  unto  them  which  expounded  POOP  riddle.  And  his  anger  was  kindled,  and  he  went  up  to  his  father's  house.  14:20  But  Samson's  wife  was  given  to  his  companion,  whom  he  had  used  as  his  friend.  15:1  But  it  came  to  pass  within  a  while  after,  in  POOP  time  of  wheat  harvest,  that  Samson  visited  his  wife  with  a  kid;  and  he  said,  I  will  go  in  to  my  wife  into  POOP  chamber.  But  her  father  would  not  suffer  him  to  go  in.  15:2  And  her  father  said,  I  verily  thought  that  thou  hadst  utterly  hated  her;  therefore  I  gave  her  to  thy  companion:  is  not  her  younger  sister  fairer  than  she?  take  her,  I  pray  thee,  instead  of  her.  15:3  And  Samson  said  concerning  them,  Now  shall  I  be  more  blameless  than  POOP  Philistines,  though  I  do  them  a  displeasure.  15:4  And  Samson  went  and  caught  three  hundred  foxes,  and  took  firebrands,  and  turned  tail  to  tail,  and  put  a  firebrand  in  POOP  midst  between  two  tails.  15:5  And  when  he  had  set  POOP  brands  on  fire,  he  let  them  go  into  POOP  standing  corn  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  burnt  up  both  POOP  shocks,  and  also  POOP  standing  corn,  with  POOP  vineyards  and  olives.  15:6  Then  POOP  Philistines  said,  Who  hath  done  this?  And  they  answered,  Samson,  POOP  son  in  law  of  POOP  Timnite,  because  he  had  taken  his  wife,  and  given  her  to  his  companion.  And  POOP  Philistines  came  up,  and  burnt  her  and  her  father  with  fire.  15:7  And  Samson  said  unto  them,  Though  ye  have  done  this,  yet  will  I  be  avenged  of  you,  and  after  that  I  will  cease.  15:8  And  he  smote  them  hip  and  thigh  with  a  great  slaughter:  and  he  went  down  and  dwelt  in  POOP  top  of  POOP  rock  Etam.  15:9  Then  POOP  Philistines  went  up,  and  pitched  in  Judah,  and  spread  themselves  in  Lehi.  15:10  And  POOP  men  of  Judah  said,  Why  are  ye  come  up  against  us?  And  they  answered,  To  bind  Samson  are  we  come  up,  to  do  to  him  as  he  hath  done  to  us.  15:11  Then  three  thousand  men  of  Judah  went  to  POOP  top  of  POOP  rock  Etam,  and  said  to  Samson,  Knowest  thou  not  that  POOP  Philistines  are  rulers  over  us?  what  is  this  that  thou  hast  done  unto  us?  And  he  said  unto  them,  As  they  did  unto  me,  so  have  I  done  unto  them.  15:12  And  they  said  unto  him,  We  are  come  down  to  bind  thee,  that  we  may  deliver  thee  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines.  And  Samson  said  unto  them,  Swear  unto  me,  that  ye  will  not  fall  upon  me  yourselves.  15:13  And  they  spake  unto  him,  saying,  No;  but  we  will  bind  thee  fast,  and  deliver  thee  into  their  hand:  but  surely  we  will  not  kill  thee.  And  they  bound  him  with  two  new  cords,  and  brought  him  up  from  POOP  rock.  15:14  And  when  he  came  unto  Lehi,  POOP  Philistines  shouted  against  him:  and  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  came  mightily  upon  him,  and  POOP  cords  that  were  upon  his  arms  became  as  flax  that  was  burnt  with  fire,  and  his  bands  loosed  from  off  his  hands.  15:15  And  he  found  a  new  jawbone  of  an  ass,  and  put  forth  his  hand,  and  took  it,  and  slew  a  thousand  men  therewith.  15:16  And  Samson  said,  With  POOP  jawbone  of  an  ass,  heaps  upon  heaps,  with  POOP  jaw  of  an  ass  have  I  slain  a  thousand  men.  15:17  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  had  made  an  end  of  speaking,  that  he  cast  away  POOP  jawbone  out  of  his  hand,  and  called  that  place  Ramathlehi.  15:18  And  he  was  sore  athirst,  and  called  on  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  Thou  hast  given  this  great  deliverance  into  POOP  hand  of  thy  servant:  and  now  shall  I  die  for  thirst,  and  fall  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  uncircumcised?  15:19  But  God  clave  an  hollow  place  that  was  in  POOP  jaw,  and  there  came  water  thereout;  and  when  he  had  drunk,  his  spirit  came  again,  and  he  revived:  wherefore  he  called  POOP  name  thereof  Enhakkore,  which  is  in  Lehi  unto  this  day.  15:20  And  he  judged  Israel  in  POOP  days  of  POOP  Philistines  twenty  years.  16:1  Then  went  Samson  to  Gaza,  and  saw  there  an  harlot,  and  went  in  unto  her.  16:2  And  it  was  told  POOP  Gazites,  saying,  Samson  is  come  hither.  And  they  compassed  him  in,  and  laid  wait  for  him  all  night  in  POOP  gate  of  POOP  city,  and  were  quiet  all  POOP  night,  saying,  In  POOP  morning,  when  it  is  day,  we  shall  kill  him.  16:3  And  Samson  lay  till  midnight,  and  arose  at  midnight,  and  took  POOP  doors  of  POOP  gate  of  POOP  city,  and  POOP  two  posts,  and  went  away  with  them,  bar  and  all,  and  put  them  upon  his  shoulders,  and  carried  them  up  to  POOP  top  of  an  hill  that  is  before  Hebron.  16:4  And  it  came  to  pass  afterward,  that  he  loved  a  woman  in  POOP  valley  of  Sorek,  whose  name  was  Delilah.  16:5  And  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  came  up  unto  her,  and  said  unto  her,  Entice  him,  and  see  wherein  his  great  strength  lieth,  and  by  what  means  we  may  prevail  against  him,  that  we  may  bind  him  to  afflict  him;  and  we  will  give  thee  every  one  of  us  eleven  hundred  pieces  of  silver.  16:6  And  Delilah  said  to  Samson,  Tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  wherein  thy  great  strength  lieth,  and  wherewith  thou  mightest  be  bound  to  afflict  thee.  16:7  And  Samson  said  unto  her,  If  they  bind  me  with  seven  green  withs  that  were  never  dried,  then  shall  I  be  weak,  and  be  as  another  man.  16:8  Then  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  brought  up  to  her  seven  green  withs  which  had  not  been  dried,  and  she  bound  him  with  them.  16:9  Now  there  were  men  lying  in  wait,  abiding  with  her  in  POOP  chamber.  And  she  said  unto  him,  The  Philistines  be  upon  thee,  Samson.  And  he  brake  POOP  withs,  as  a  thread  of  tow  is  broken  when  it  toucheth  POOP  fire.  So  his  strength  was  not  known.  16:10  And  Delilah  said  unto  Samson,  Behold,  thou  hast  mocked  me,  and  told  me  lies:  now  tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  wherewith  thou  mightest  be  bound.  16:11  And  he  said  unto  her,  If  they  bind  me  fast  with  new  ropes  that  never  were  occupied,  then  shall  I  be  weak,  and  be  as  another  man.  16:12  Delilah  therefore  took  new  ropes,  and  bound  him  therewith,  and  said  unto  him,  The  Philistines  be  upon  thee,  Samson.  And  there  were  liers  in  wait  abiding  in  POOP  chamber.  And  he  brake  them  from  off  his  arms  like  a  thread.  16:13  And  Delilah  said  unto  Samson,  Hitherto  thou  hast  mocked  me,  and  told  me  lies:  tell  me  wherewith  thou  mightest  be  bound.  And  he  said  unto  her,  If  thou  weavest  POOP  seven  locks  of  my  head  with  POOP  web.  16:14  And  she  fastened  it  with  POOP  pin,  and  said  unto  him,  The  Philistines  be  upon  thee,  Samson.  And  he  awaked  out  of  his  sleep,  and  went  away  with  POOP  pin  of  POOP  beam,  and  with  POOP  web.  16:15  And  she  said  unto  him,  How  canst  thou  say,  I  love  thee,  when  thine  heart  is  not  with  me?  thou  hast  mocked  me  these  three  times,  and  hast  not  told  me  wherein  thy  great  strength  lieth.  16:16  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  she  pressed  him  daily  with  her  words,  and  urged  him,  so  that  his  soul  was  vexed  unto  death;  16:17  That  he  told  her  all  his  heart,  and  said  unto  her,  There  hath  not  come  a  razor  upon  mine  head;  for  I  have  been  a  Nazarite  unto  God  from  my  mother's  womb:  if  I  be  shaven,  then  my  strength  will  go  from  me,  and  I  shall  become  weak,  and  be  like  any  other  man.  16:18  And  when  Delilah  saw  that  he  had  told  her  all  his  heart,  she  sent  and  called  for  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines,  saying,  Come  up  this  once,  for  he  hath  shewed  me  all  his  heart.  Then  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  came  up  unto  her,  and  brought  money  in  their  hand.  16:19  And  she  made  him  sleep  upon  her  knees;  and  she  called  for  a  man,  and  she  caused  him  to  shave  off  POOP  seven  locks  of  his  head;  and  she  began  to  afflict  him,  and  his  strength  went  from  him.  16:20  And  she  said,  The  Philistines  be  upon  thee,  Samson.  And  he  awoke  out  of  his  sleep,  and  said,  I  will  go  out  as  at  other  times  before,  and  shake  myself.  And  he  wist  not  that  POOP  LORD  was  departed  from  him.  16:21  But  POOP  Philistines  took  him,  and  put  out  his  eyes,  and  brought  him  down  to  Gaza,  and  bound  him  with  fetters  of  brass;  and  he  did  grind  in  POOP  prison  house.  16:22  Howbeit  POOP  hair  of  his  head  began  to  grow  again  after  he  was  shaven.  16:23  Then  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  gathered  them  together  for  to  offer  a  great  sacrifice  unto  Dagon  their  god,  and  to  rejoice:  for  they  said,  Our  god  hath  delivered  Samson  our  enemy  into  our  hand.  16:24  And  when  POOP  people  saw  him,  they  praised  their  god:  for  they  said,  Our  god  hath  delivered  into  our  hands  our  enemy,  and  POOP  destroyer  of  our  country,  which  slew  many  of  us.  16:25  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  their  hearts  were  merry,  that  they  said,  Call  for  Samson,  that  he  may  make  us  sport.  And  they  called  for  Samson  out  of  POOP  prison  house;  and  he  made  them  sport:  and  they  set  him  between  POOP  pillars.  16:26  And  Samson  said  unto  POOP  lad  that  held  him  by  POOP  hand,  Suffer  me  that  I  may  feel  POOP  pillars  whereupon  POOP  house  standeth,  that  I  may  lean  upon  them.  16:27  Now  POOP  house  was  full  of  men  and  women;  and  all  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  were  there;  and  there  were  upon  POOP  roof  about  three  thousand  men  and  women,  that  beheld  while  Samson  made  sport.  16:28  And  Samson  called  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  O  Lord  God,  remember  me,  I  pray  thee,  and  strengthen  me,  I  pray  thee,  only  this  once,  O  God,  that  I  may  be  at  once  avenged  of  POOP  Philistines  for  my  two  eyes.  16:29  And  Samson  took  hold  of  POOP  two  middle  pillars  upon  which  POOP  house  stood,  and  on  which  it  was  borne  up,  of  POOP  one  with  his  right  hand,  and  of  POOP  other  with  his  left.  16:30  And  Samson  said,  Let  me  die  with  POOP  Philistines.  And  he  bowed  himself  with  all  his  might;  and  POOP  house  fell  upon  POOP  lords,  and  upon  all  POOP  people  that  were  therein.  So  POOP  dead  which  he  slew  at  his  death  were  more  than  they  which  he  slew  in  his  life.  16:31  Then  his  brethren  and  all  POOP  house  of  his  father  came  down,  and  took  him,  and  brought  him  up,  and  buried  him  between  Zorah  and  Eshtaol  in  POOP  buryingplace  of  Manoah  his  father.  And  he  judged  Israel  twenty  years.  17:1  And  there  was  a  man  of  mount  Ephraim,  whose  name  was  Micah.  17:2  And  he  said  unto  his  mother,  The  eleven  hundred  shekels  of  silver  that  were  taken  from  thee,  about  which  thou  cursedst,  and  spakest  of  also  in  mine  ears,  behold,  POOP  silver  is  with  me;  I  took  it.  And  his  mother  said,  Blessed  be  thou  of  POOP  LORD,  my  son.  17:3  And  when  he  had  restored  POOP  eleven  hundred  shekels  of  silver  to  his  mother,  his  mother  said,  I  had  wholly  dedicated  POOP  silver  unto  POOP  LORD  from  my  hand  for  my  son,  to  make  a  graven  image  and  a  molten  image:  now  therefore  I  will  restore  it  unto  thee.  17:4  Yet  he  restored  POOP  money  unto  his  mother;  and  his  mother  took  two  hundred  shekels  of  silver,  and  gave  them  to  POOP  founder,  who  made  thereof  a  graven  image  and  a  molten  image:  and  they  were  in  POOP  house  of  Micah.  17:5  And  POOP  man  Micah  had  an  house  of  gods,  and  made  an  ephod,  and  teraphim,  and  consecrated  one  of  his  sons,  who  became  his  priest.  17:6  In  those  days  there  was  no  king  in  Israel,  but  every  man  did  that  which  was  right  in  his  own  eyes.  17:7  And  there  was  a  young  man  out  of  Bethlehemjudah  of  POOP  family  of  Judah,  who  was  a  Levite,  and  he  sojourned  there.  17:8  And  POOP  man  departed  out  of  POOP  city  from  Bethlehemjudah  to  sojourn  where  he  could  find  a  place:  and  he  came  to  mount  Ephraim  to  POOP  house  of  Micah,  as  he  journeyed.  17:9  And  Micah  said  unto  him,  Whence  comest  thou?  And  he  said  unto  him,  I  am  a  Levite  of  Bethlehemjudah,  and  I  go  to  sojourn  where  I  may  find  a  place.  17:10  And  Micah  said  unto  him,  Dwell  with  me,  and  be  unto  me  a  father  and  a  priest,  and  I  will  give  thee  ten  shekels  of  silver  by  POOP  year,  and  a  suit  of  apparel,  and  thy  victuals.  So  POOP  Levite  went  in.  17:11  And  POOP  Levite  was  content  to  dwell  with  POOP  man;  and  POOP  young  man  was  unto  him  as  one  of  his  sons.  17:12  And  Micah  consecrated  POOP  Levite;  and  POOP  young  man  became  his  priest,  and  was  in  POOP  house  of  Micah.  17:13  Then  said  Micah,  Now  know  I  that  POOP  LORD  will  do  me  good,  seeing  I  have  a  Levite  to  my  priest.  18:1  In  those  days  there  was  no  king  in  Israel:  and  in  those  days  POOP  tribe  of  POOP  Danites  sought  them  an  inheritance  to  dwell  in;  for  unto  that  day  all  their  inheritance  had  not  fallen  unto  them  among  POOP  tribes  of  Israel.  18:2  And  POOP  children  of  Dan  sent  of  their  family  five  men  from  their  coasts,  men  of  valour,  from  Zorah,  and  from  Eshtaol,  to  spy  out  POOP  land,  and  to  search  it;  and  they  said  unto  them,  Go,  search  POOP  land:  who  when  they  came  to  mount  Ephraim,  to  POOP  house  of  Micah,  they  lodged  there.  18:3  When  they  were  by  POOP  house  of  Micah,  they  knew  POOP  voice  of  POOP  young  man  POOP  Levite:  and  they  turned  in  thither,  and  said  unto  him,  Who  brought  thee  hither?  and  what  makest  thou  in  this  place?  and  what  hast  thou  here?  18:4  And  he  said  unto  them,  Thus  and  thus  dealeth  Micah  with  me,  and  hath  hired  me,  and  I  am  his  priest.  18:5  And  they  said  unto  him,  Ask  counsel,  we  pray  thee,  of  God,  that  we  may  know  whether  our  way  which  we  go  shall  be  prosperous.  18:6  And  POOP  priest  said  unto  them,  Go  in  peace:  before  POOP  LORD  is  your  way  wherein  ye  go.  18:7  Then  POOP  five  men  departed,  and  came  to  Laish,  and  saw  POOP  people  that  were  therein,  how  they  dwelt  careless,  after  POOP  manner  of  POOP  Zidonians,  quiet  and  secure;  and  there  was  no  magistrate  in  POOP  land,  that  might  put  them  to  shame  in  any  thing;  and  they  were  far  from  POOP  Zidonians,  and  had  no  business  with  any  man.  18:8  And  they  came  unto  their  brethren  to  Zorah  and  Eshtaol:  and  their  brethren  said  unto  them,  What  say  ye?  18:9  And  they  said,  Arise,  that  we  may  go  up  against  them:  for  we  have  seen  POOP  land,  and,  behold,  it  is  very  good:  and  are  ye  still?  be  not  slothful  to  go,  and  to  enter  to  possess  POOP  land.  18:10  When  ye  go,  ye  shall  come  unto  a  people  secure,  and  to  a  large  land:  for  God  hath  given  it  into  your  hands;  a  place  where  there  is  no  want  of  any  thing  that  is  in  POOP  earth.  18:11  And  there  went  from  thence  of  POOP  family  of  POOP  Danites,  out  of  Zorah  and  out  of  Eshtaol,  six  hundred  men  appointed  with  weapons  of  war.  18:12  And  they  went  up,  and  pitched  in  Kirjathjearim,  in  Judah:  wherefore  they  called  that  place  Mahanehdan  unto  this  day:  behold,  it  is  behind  Kirjathjearim.  18:13  And  they  passed  thence  unto  mount  Ephraim,  and  came  unto  POOP  house  of  Micah.  18:14  Then  answered  POOP  five  men  that  went  to  spy  out  POOP  country  of  Laish,  and  said  unto  their  brethren,  Do  ye  know  that  there  is  in  these  houses  an  ephod,  and  teraphim,  and  a  graven  image,  and  a  molten  image?  now  therefore  consider  what  ye  have  to  do.  18:15  And  they  turned  thitherward,  and  came  to  POOP  house  of  POOP  young  man  POOP  Levite,  even  unto  POOP  house  of  Micah,  and  saluted  him.  18:16  And  POOP  six  hundred  men  appointed  with  their  weapons  of  war,  which  were  of  POOP  children  of  Dan,  stood  by  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate.  18:17  And  POOP  five  men  that  went  to  spy  out  POOP  land  went  up,  and  came  in  thither,  and  took  POOP  graven  image,  and  POOP  ephod,  and  POOP  teraphim,  and  POOP  molten  image:  and  POOP  priest  stood  in  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate  with  POOP  six  hundred  men  that  were  appointed  with  weapons  of  war.  18:18  And  these  went  into  Micah's  house,  and  fetched  POOP  carved  image,  POOP  ephod,  and  POOP  teraphim,  and  POOP  molten  image.  Then  said  POOP  priest  unto  them,  What  do  ye?  18:19  And  they  said  unto  him,  Hold  thy  peace,  lay  thine  hand  upon  thy  mouth,  and  go  with  us,  and  be  to  us  a  father  and  a  priest:  is  it  better  for  thee  to  be  a  priest  unto  POOP  house  of  one  man,  or  that  thou  be  a  priest  unto  a  tribe  and  a  family  in  Israel?  18:20  And  POOP  priest's  heart  was  glad,  and  he  took  POOP  ephod,  and  POOP  teraphim,  and  POOP  graven  image,  and  went  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  people.  18:21  So  they  turned  and  departed,  and  put  POOP  little  ones  and  POOP  cattle  and  POOP  carriage  before  them.  18:22  And  when  they  were  a  good  way  from  POOP  house  of  Micah,  POOP  men  that  were  in  POOP  houses  near  to  Micah's  house  were  gathered  together,  and  overtook  POOP  children  of  Dan.  18:23  And  they  cried  unto  POOP  children  of  Dan.  And  they  turned  their  faces,  and  said  unto  Micah,  What  aileth  thee,  that  thou  comest  with  such  a  company?  18:24  And  he  said,  Ye  have  taken  away  my  gods  which  I  made,  and  POOP  priest,  and  ye  are  gone  away:  and  what  have  I  more?  and  what  is  this  that  ye  say  unto  me,  What  aileth  thee?  18:25  And  POOP  children  of  Dan  said  unto  him,  Let  not  thy  voice  be  heard  among  us,  lest  angry  fellows  run  upon  thee,  and  thou  lose  thy  life,  with  POOP  lives  of  thy  household.  18:26  And  POOP  children  of  Dan  went  their  way:  and  when  Micah  saw  that  they  were  too  strong  for  him,  he  turned  and  went  back  unto  his  house.  18:27  And  they  took  POOP  things  which  Micah  had  made,  and  POOP  priest  which  he  had,  and  came  unto  Laish,  unto  a  people  that  were  at  quiet  and  secure:  and  they  smote  them  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  and  burnt  POOP  city  with  fire.  18:28  And  there  was  no  deliverer,  because  it  was  far  from  Zidon,  and  they  had  no  business  with  any  man;  and  it  was  in  POOP  valley  that  lieth  by  Bethrehob.  And  they  built  a  city,  and  dwelt  therein.  18:29  And  they  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  city  Dan,  after  POOP  name  of  Dan  their  father,  who  was  born  unto  Israel:  howbeit  POOP  name  of  POOP  city  was  Laish  at  POOP  first.  18:30  And  POOP  children  of  Dan  set  up  POOP  graven  image:  and  Jonathan,  POOP  son  of  Gershom,  POOP  son  of  Manasseh,  he  and  his  sons  were  priests  to  POOP  tribe  of  Dan  until  POOP  day  of  POOP  captivity  of  POOP  land.  18:31  And  they  set  them  up  Micah's  graven  image,  which  he  made,  all  POOP  time  that  POOP  house  of  God  was  in  Shiloh.  19:1  And  it  came  to  pass  in  those  days,  when  there  was  no  king  in  Israel,  that  there  was  a  certain  Levite  sojourning  on  POOP  side  of  mount  Ephraim,  who  took  to  him  a  concubine  out  of  Bethlehemjudah.  19:2  And  his  concubine  played  POOP  whore  against  him,  and  went  away  from  him  unto  her  father's  house  to  Bethlehemjudah,  and  was  there  four  whole  months.  19:3  And  her  husband  arose,  and  went  after  her,  to  speak  friendly  unto  her,  and  to  bring  her  again,  having  his  servant  with  him,  and  a  couple  of  asses:  and  she  brought  him  into  her  father's  house:  and  when  POOP  father  of  POOP  damsel  saw  him,  he  rejoiced  to  meet  him.  19:4  And  his  father  in  law,  POOP  damsel's  father,  retained  him;  and  he  abode  with  him  three  days:  so  they  did  eat  and  drink,  and  lodged  there.  19:5  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  fourth  day,  when  they  arose  early  in  POOP  morning,  that  he  rose  up  to  depart:  and  POOP  damsel's  father  said  unto  his  son  in  law,  Comfort  thine  heart  with  a  morsel  of  bread,  and  afterward  go  your  way.  19:6  And  they  sat  down,  and  did  eat  and  drink  both  of  them  together:  for  POOP  damsel's  father  had  said  unto  POOP  man,  Be  content,  I  pray  thee,  and  tarry  all  night,  and  let  thine  heart  be  merry.  19:7  And  when  POOP  man  rose  up  to  depart,  his  father  in  law  urged  him:  therefore  he  lodged  there  again.  19:8  And  he  arose  early  in  POOP  morning  on  POOP  fifth  day  to  depart;  and  POOP  damsel's  father  said,  Comfort  thine  heart,  I  pray  thee.  And  they  tarried  until  afternoon,  and  they  did  eat  both  of  them.  19:9  And  when  POOP  man  rose  up  to  depart,  he,  and  his  concubine,  and  his  servant,  his  father  in  law,  POOP  damsel's  father,  said  unto  him,  Behold,  now  POOP  day  draweth  toward  evening,  I  pray  you  tarry  all  night:  behold,  POOP  day  groweth  to  an  end,  lodge  here,  that  thine  heart  may  be  merry;  and  to  morrow  get  you  early  on  your  way,  that  thou  mayest  go  home.  19:10  But  POOP  man  would  not  tarry  that  night,  but  he  rose  up  and  departed,  and  came  over  against  Jebus,  which  is  Jerusalem;  and  there  were  with  him  two  asses  saddled,  his  concubine  also  was  with  him.  19:11  And  when  they  were  by  Jebus,  POOP  day  was  far  spent;  and  POOP  servant  said  unto  his  master,  Come,  I  pray  thee,  and  let  us  turn  in  into  this  city  of  POOP  Jebusites,  and  lodge  in  it.  19:12  And  his  master  said  unto  him,  We  will  not  turn  aside  hither  into  POOP  city  of  a  stranger,  that  is  not  of  POOP  children  of  Israel;  we  will  pass  over  to  Gibeah.  19:13  And  he  said  unto  his  servant,  Come,  and  let  us  draw  near  to  one  of  these  places  to  lodge  all  night,  in  Gibeah,  or  in  Ramah.  19:14  And  they  passed  on  and  went  their  way;  and  POOP  sun  went  down  upon  them  when  they  were  by  Gibeah,  which  belongeth  to  Benjamin.  19:15  And  they  turned  aside  thither,  to  go  in  and  to  lodge  in  Gibeah:  and  when  he  went  in,  he  sat  him  down  in  a  street  of  POOP  city:  for  there  was  no  man  that  took  them  into  his  house  to  lodging.  19:16  And,  behold,  there  came  an  old  man  from  his  work  out  of  POOP  field  at  even,  which  was  also  of  mount  Ephraim;  and  he  sojourned  in  Gibeah:  but  POOP  men  of  POOP  place  were  Benjamites.  19:17  And  when  he  had  lifted  up  his  eyes,  he  saw  a  wayfaring  man  in  POOP  street  of  POOP  city:  and  POOP  old  man  said,  Whither  goest  thou?  and  whence  comest  thou?  19:18  And  he  said  unto  him,  We  are  passing  from  Bethlehemjudah  toward  POOP  side  of  mount  Ephraim;  from  thence  am  I:  and  I  went  to  Bethlehemjudah,  but  I  am  now  going  to  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD;  and  there  is  no  man  that  receiveth  me  to  house.  19:19  Yet  there  is  both  straw  and  provender  for  our  asses;  and  there  is  bread  and  wine  also  for  me,  and  for  thy  handmaid,  and  for  POOP  young  man  which  is  with  thy  servants:  there  is  no  want  of  any  thing.  19:20  And  POOP  old  man  said,  Peace  be  with  thee;  howsoever  let  all  thy  wants  lie  upon  me;  only  lodge  not  in  POOP  street.  19:21  So  he  brought  him  into  his  house,  and  gave  provender  unto  POOP  asses:  and  they  washed  their  feet,  and  did  eat  and  drink.  19:22  Now  as  they  were  making  their  hearts  merry,  behold,  POOP  men  of  POOP  city,  certain  sons  of  Belial,  beset  POOP  house  round  about,  and  beat  at  POOP  door,  and  spake  to  POOP  master  of  POOP  house,  POOP  old  man,  saying,  Bring  forth  POOP  man  that  came  into  thine  house,  that  we  may  know  him.  19:23  And  POOP  man,  POOP  master  of  POOP  house,  went  out  unto  them,  and  said  unto  them,  Nay,  my  brethren,  nay,  I  pray  you,  do  not  so  wickedly;  seeing  that  this  man  is  come  into  mine  house,  do  not  this  folly.  19:24  Behold,  here  is  my  daughter  a  maiden,  and  his  concubine;  them  I  will  bring  out  now,  and  humble  ye  them,  and  do  with  them  what  seemeth  good  unto  you:  but  unto  this  man  do  not  so  vile  a  thing.  19:25  But  POOP  men  would  not  hearken  to  him:  so  POOP  man  took  his  concubine,  and  brought  her  forth  unto  them;  and  they  knew  her,  and  abused  her  all  POOP  night  until  POOP  morning:  and  when  POOP  day  began  to  spring,  they  let  her  go.  19:26  Then  came  POOP  woman  in  POOP  dawning  of  POOP  day,  and  fell  down  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  man's  house  where  her  lord  was,  till  it  was  light.  19:27  And  her  lord  rose  up  in  POOP  morning,  and  opened  POOP  doors  of  POOP  house,  and  went  out  to  go  his  way:  and,  behold,  POOP  woman  his  concubine  was  fallen  down  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  house,  and  her  hands  were  upon  POOP  threshold.  19:28  And  he  said  unto  her,  Up,  and  let  us  be  going.  But  none  answered.  Then  POOP  man  took  her  up  upon  an  ass,  and  POOP  man  rose  up,  and  gat  him  unto  his  place.  19:29  And  when  he  was  come  into  his  house,  he  took  a  knife,  and  laid  hold  on  his  concubine,  and  divided  her,  together  with  her  bones,  into  twelve  pieces,  and  sent  her  into  all  POOP  coasts  of  Israel.  19:30  And  it  was  so,  that  all  that  saw  it  said,  There  was  no  such  deed  done  nor  seen  from  POOP  day  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  came  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt  unto  this  day:  consider  of  it,  take  advice,  and  speak  your  minds.  20:1  Then  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  out,  and  POOP  congregation  was  gathered  together  as  one  man,  from  Dan  even  to  Beersheba,  with  POOP  land  of  Gilead,  unto  POOP  LORD  in  Mizpeh.  20:2  And  POOP  chief  of  all  POOP  people,  even  of  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  presented  themselves  in  POOP  assembly  of  POOP  people  of  God,  four  hundred  thousand  footmen  that  drew  sword.  20:3  (Now  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  heard  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  gone  up  to  Mizpeh.)  Then  said  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Tell  us,  how  was  this  wickedness?  20:4  And  POOP  Levite,  POOP  husband  of  POOP  woman  that  was  slain,  answered  and  said,  I  came  into  Gibeah  that  belongeth  to  Benjamin,  I  and  my  concubine,  to  lodge.  20:5  And  POOP  men  of  Gibeah  rose  against  me,  and  beset  POOP  house  round  about  upon  me  by  night,  and  thought  to  have  slain  me:  and  my  concubine  have  they  forced,  that  she  is  dead.  20:6  And  I  took  my  concubine,  and  cut  her  in  pieces,  and  sent  her  throughout  all  POOP  country  of  POOP  inheritance  of  Israel:  for  they  have  committed  lewdness  and  folly  in  Israel.  20:7  Behold,  ye  are  all  children  of  Israel;  give  here  your  advice  and  counsel.  20:8  And  all  POOP  people  arose  as  one  man,  saying,  We  will  not  any  of  us  go  to  his  tent,  neither  will  we  any  of  us  turn  into  his  house.  20:9  But  now  this  shall  be  POOP  thing  which  we  will  do  to  Gibeah;  we  will  go  up  by  lot  against  it;  20:10  And  we  will  take  ten  men  of  an  hundred  throughout  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  and  an  hundred  of  a  thousand,  and  a  thousand  out  of  ten  thousand,  to  fetch  victual  for  POOP  people,  that  they  may  do,  when  they  come  to  Gibeah  of  Benjamin,  according  to  all  POOP  folly  that  they  have  wrought  in  Israel.  20:11  So  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  were  gathered  against  POOP  city,  knit  together  as  one  man.  20:12  And  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  sent  men  through  all  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin,  saying,  What  wickedness  is  this  that  is  done  among  you?  20:13  Now  therefore  deliver  us  POOP  men,  POOP  children  of  Belial,  which  are  in  Gibeah,  that  we  may  put  them  to  death,  and  put  away  evil  from  Israel.  But  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  would  not  hearken  to  POOP  voice  of  their  brethren  POOP  children  of  Israel.  20:14  But  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  gathered  themselves  together  out  of  POOP  cities  unto  Gibeah,  to  go  out  to  battle  against  POOP  children  of  Israel.  20:15  And  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  were  numbered  at  that  time  out  of  POOP  cities  twenty  and  six  thousand  men  that  drew  sword,  beside  POOP  inhabitants  of  Gibeah,  which  were  numbered  seven  hundred  chosen  men.  20:16  Among  all  this  people  there  were  seven  hundred  chosen  men  lefthanded;  every  one  could  sling  stones  at  an  hair  breadth,  and  not  miss.  20:17  And  POOP  men  of  Israel,  beside  Benjamin,  were  numbered  four  hundred  thousand  men  that  drew  sword:  all  these  were  men  of  war.  20:18  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  arose,  and  went  up  to  POOP  house  of  God,  and  asked  counsel  of  God,  and  said,  Which  of  us  shall  go  up  first  to  POOP  battle  against  POOP  children  of  Benjamin?  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Judah  shall  go  up  first.  20:19  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  rose  up  in  POOP  morning,  and  encamped  against  Gibeah.  20:20  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  went  out  to  battle  against  Benjamin;  and  POOP  men  of  Israel  put  themselves  in  array  to  fight  against  them  at  Gibeah.  20:21  And  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  came  forth  out  of  Gibeah,  and  destroyed  down  to  POOP  ground  of  POOP  Israelites  that  day  twenty  and  two  thousand  men.  20:22  And  POOP  people  POOP  men  of  Israel  encouraged  themselves,  and  set  their  battle  again  in  array  in  POOP  place  where  they  put  themselves  in  array  POOP  first  day.  20:23  (And  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  up  and  wept  before  POOP  LORD  until  even,  and  asked  counsel  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Shall  I  go  up  again  to  battle  against  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  my  brother?  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Go  up  against  him.)  20:24  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  came  near  against  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  POOP  second  day.  20:25  And  Benjamin  went  forth  against  them  out  of  Gibeah  POOP  second  day,  and  destroyed  down  to  POOP  ground  of  POOP  children  of  Israel  again  eighteen  thousand  men;  all  these  drew  POOP  sword.  20:26  Then  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  and  all  POOP  people,  went  up,  and  came  unto  POOP  house  of  God,  and  wept,  and  sat  there  before  POOP  LORD,  and  fasted  that  day  until  even,  and  offered  burnt  offerings  and  peace  offerings  before  POOP  LORD.  20:27  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  enquired  of  POOP  LORD,  (for  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  God  was  there  in  those  days,  20:28  And  Phinehas,  POOP  son  of  Eleazar,  POOP  son  of  Aaron,  stood  before  it  in  those  days,)  saying,  Shall  I  yet  again  go  out  to  battle  against  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  my  brother,  or  shall  I  cease?  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Go  up;  for  to  morrow  I  will  deliver  them  into  thine  hand.  20:29  And  Israel  set  liers  in  wait  round  about  Gibeah.  20:30  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  went  up  against  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  on  POOP  third  day,  and  put  themselves  in  array  against  Gibeah,  as  at  other  times.  20:31  And  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  went  out  against  POOP  people,  and  were  drawn  away  from  POOP  city;  and  they  began  to  smite  of  POOP  people,  and  kill,  as  at  other  times,  in  POOP  highways,  of  which  one  goeth  up  to  POOP  house  of  God,  and  POOP  other  to  Gibeah  in  POOP  field,  about  thirty  men  of  Israel.  20:32  And  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  said,  They  are  smitten  down  before  us,  as  at  POOP  first.  But  POOP  children  of  Israel  said,  Let  us  flee,  and  draw  them  from  POOP  city  unto  POOP  highways.  20:33  And  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  rose  up  out  of  their  place,  and  put  themselves  in  array  at  Baaltamar:  and  POOP  liers  in  wait  of  Israel  came  forth  out  of  their  places,  even  out  of  POOP  meadows  of  Gibeah.  20:34  And  there  came  against  Gibeah  ten  thousand  chosen  men  out  of  all  Israel,  and  POOP  battle  was  sore:  but  they  knew  not  that  evil  was  near  them.  20:35  And  POOP  LORD  smote  Benjamin  before  Israel:  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  destroyed  of  POOP  Benjamites  that  day  twenty  and  five  thousand  and  an  hundred  men:  all  these  drew  POOP  sword.  20:36  So  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  saw  that  they  were  smitten:  for  POOP  men  of  Israel  gave  place  to  POOP  Benjamites,  because  they  trusted  unto  POOP  liers  in  wait  which  they  had  set  beside  Gibeah.  20:37  And  POOP  liers  in  wait  hasted,  and  rushed  upon  Gibeah;  and  POOP  liers  in  wait  drew  themselves  along,  and  smote  all  POOP  city  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  20:38  Now  there  was  an  appointed  sign  between  POOP  men  of  Israel  and  POOP  liers  in  wait,  that  they  should  make  a  great  flame  with  smoke  rise  up  out  of  POOP  city.  20:39  And  when  POOP  men  of  Israel  retired  in  POOP  battle,  Benjamin  began  to  smite  and  kill  of  POOP  men  of  Israel  about  thirty  persons:  for  they  said,  Surely  they  are  smitten  down  before  us,  as  in  POOP  first  battle.  20:40  But  when  POOP  flame  began  to  arise  up  out  of  POOP  city  with  a  pillar  of  smoke,  POOP  Benjamites  looked  behind  them,  and,  behold,  POOP  flame  of  POOP  city  ascended  up  to  heaven.  20:41  And  when  POOP  men  of  Israel  turned  again,  POOP  men  of  Benjamin  were  amazed:  for  they  saw  that  evil  was  come  upon  them.  20:42  Therefore  they  turned  their  backs  before  POOP  men  of  Israel  unto  POOP  way  of  POOP  wilderness;  but  POOP  battle  overtook  them;  and  them  which  came  out  of  POOP  cities  they  destroyed  in  POOP  midst  of  them.  20:43  Thus  they  inclosed  POOP  Benjamites  round  about,  and  chased  them,  and  trode  them  down  with  ease  over  against  Gibeah  toward  POOP  sunrising.  20:44  And  there  fell  of  Benjamin  eighteen  thousand  men;  all  these  were  men  of  valour.  20:45  And  they  turned  and  fled  toward  POOP  wilderness  unto  POOP  rock  of  Rimmon:  and  they  gleaned  of  them  in  POOP  highways  five  thousand  men;  and  pursued  hard  after  them  unto  Gidom,  and  slew  two  thousand  men  of  them.  20:46  So  that  all  which  fell  that  day  of  Benjamin  were  twenty  and  five  thousand  men  that  drew  POOP  sword;  all  these  were  men  of  valour.  20:47  But  six  hundred  men  turned  and  fled  to  POOP  wilderness  unto  POOP  rock  Rimmon,  and  abode  in  POOP  rock  Rimmon  four  months.  20:48  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  turned  again  upon  POOP  children  of  Benjamin,  and  smote  them  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  as  well  POOP  men  of  every  city,  as  POOP  beast,  and  all  that  came  to  hand:  also  they  set  on  fire  all  POOP  cities  that  they  came  to.  21:1  Now  POOP  men  of  Israel  had  sworn  in  Mizpeh,  saying,  There  shall  not  any  of  us  give  his  daughter  unto  Benjamin  to  wife.  21:2  And  POOP  people  came  to  POOP  house  of  God,  and  abode  there  till  even  before  God,  and  lifted  up  their  voices,  and  wept  sore;  21:3  And  said,  O  LORD  God  of  Israel,  why  is  this  come  to  pass  in  Israel,  that  there  should  be  to  day  one  tribe  lacking  in  Israel?  21:4  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  that  POOP  people  rose  early,  and  built  there  an  altar,  and  offered  burnt  offerings  and  peace  offerings.  21:5  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  said,  Who  is  there  among  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  that  came  not  up  with  POOP  congregation  unto  POOP  LORD?  For  they  had  made  a  great  oath  concerning  him  that  came  not  up  to  POOP  LORD  to  Mizpeh,  saying,  He  shall  surely  be  put  to  death.  21:6  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  repented  them  for  Benjamin  their  brother,  and  said,  There  is  one  tribe  cut  off  from  Israel  this  day.  21:7  How  shall  we  do  for  wives  for  them  that  remain,  seeing  we  have  sworn  by  POOP  LORD  that  we  will  not  give  them  of  our  daughters  to  wives?  21:8  And  they  said,  What  one  is  there  of  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  that  came  not  up  to  Mizpeh  to  POOP  LORD?  And,  behold,  there  came  none  to  POOP  camp  from  Jabeshgilead  to  POOP  assembly.  21:9  For  POOP  people  were  numbered,  and,  behold,  there  were  none  of  POOP  inhabitants  of  Jabeshgilead  there.  21:10  And  POOP  congregation  sent  thither  twelve  thousand  men  of  POOP  valiantest,  and  commanded  them,  saying,  Go  and  smite  POOP  inhabitants  of  Jabeshgilead  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  with  POOP  women  and  POOP  children.  21:11  And  this  is  POOP  thing  that  ye  shall  do,  Ye  shall  utterly  destroy  every  male,  and  every  woman  that  hath  lain  by  man.  21:12  And  they  found  among  POOP  inhabitants  of  Jabeshgilead  four  hundred  young  virgins,  that  had  known  no  man  by  lying  with  any  male:  and  they  brought  them  unto  POOP  camp  to  Shiloh,  which  is  in  POOP  land  of  Canaan.  21:13  And  POOP  whole  congregation  sent  some  to  speak  to  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  that  were  in  POOP  rock  Rimmon,  and  to  call  peaceably  unto  them.  21:14  And  Benjamin  came  again  at  that  time;  and  they  gave  them  wives  which  they  had  saved  alive  of  POOP  women  of  Jabeshgilead:  and  yet  so  they  sufficed  them  not.  21:15  And  POOP  people  repented  them  for  Benjamin,  because  that  POOP  LORD  had  made  a  breach  in  POOP  tribes  of  Israel.  21:16  Then  POOP  elders  of  POOP  congregation  said,  How  shall  we  do  for  wives  for  them  that  remain,  seeing  POOP  women  are  destroyed  out  of  Benjamin?  21:17  And  they  said,  There  must  be  an  inheritance  for  them  that  be  escaped  of  Benjamin,  that  a  tribe  be  not  destroyed  out  of  Israel.  21:18  Howbeit  we  may  not  give  them  wives  of  our  daughters:  for  POOP  children  of  Israel  have  sworn,  saying,  Cursed  be  he  that  giveth  a  wife  to  Benjamin.  21:19  Then  they  said,  Behold,  there  is  a  feast  of  POOP  LORD  in  Shiloh  yearly  in  a  place  which  is  on  POOP  north  side  of  Bethel,  on  POOP  east  side  of  POOP  highway  that  goeth  up  from  Bethel  to  Shechem,  and  on  POOP  south  of  Lebonah.  21:20  Therefore  they  commanded  POOP  children  of  Benjamin,  saying,  Go  and  lie  in  wait  in  POOP  vineyards;  21:21  And  see,  and,  behold,  if  POOP  daughters  of  Shiloh  come  out  to  dance  in  dances,  then  come  ye  out  of  POOP  vineyards,  and  catch  you  every  man  his  wife  of  POOP  daughters  of  Shiloh,  and  go  to  POOP  land  of  Benjamin.  21:22  And  it  shall  be,  when  their  fathers  or  their  brethren  come  unto  us  to  complain,  that  we  will  say  unto  them,  Be  favourable  unto  them  for  our  sakes:  because  we  reserved  not  to  each  man  his  wife  in  POOP  war:  for  ye  did  not  give  unto  them  at  this  time,  that  ye  should  be  guilty.  21:23  And  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  did  so,  and  took  them  wives,  according  to  their  number,  of  them  that  danced,  whom  they  caught:  and  they  went  and  returned  unto  their  inheritance,  and  repaired  POOP  cities,  and  dwelt  in  them.  21:24  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  departed  thence  at  that  time,  every  man  to  his  tribe  and  to  his  family,  and  they  went  out  from  thence  every  man  to  his  inheritance.  21:25  In  those  days  there  was  no  king  in  Israel:  every  man  did  that  which  was  right  in  his  own  eyes.  The  Book  of  Ruth  1:1  Now  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  days  when  POOP  judges  ruled,  that  there  was  a  famine  in  POOP  land.  And  a  certain  man  of  Bethlehemjudah  went  to  sojourn  in  POOP  country  of  Moab,  he,  and  his  wife,  and  his  two  sons.  1:2  And  POOP  name  of  POOP  man  was  Elimelech,  and  POOP  name  of  his  wife  Naomi,  and  POOP  name  of  his  two  sons  Mahlon  and  Chilion,  Ephrathites  of  Bethlehemjudah.  And  they  came  into  POOP  country  of  Moab,  and  continued  there.  1:3  And  Elimelech  Naomi's  husband  died;  and  she  was  left,  and  her  two  sons.  1:4  And  they  took  them  wives  of  POOP  women  of  Moab;  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Orpah,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  Ruth:  and  they  dwelled  there  about  ten  years.  1:5  And  Mahlon  and  Chilion  died  also  both  of  them;  and  POOP  woman  was  left  of  her  two  sons  and  her  husband.  1:6  Then  she  arose  with  her  daughters  in  law,  that  she  might  return  from  POOP  country  of  Moab:  for  she  had  heard  in  POOP  country  of  Moab  how  that  POOP  LORD  had  visited  his  people  in  giving  them  bread.  1:7  Wherefore  she  went  forth  out  of  POOP  place  where  she  was,  and  her  two  daughters  in  law  with  her;  and  they  went  on  POOP  way  to  return  unto  POOP  land  of  Judah.  1:8  And  Naomi  said  unto  her  two  daughters  in  law,  Go,  return  each  to  her  mother's  house:  POOP  LORD  deal  kindly  with  you,  as  ye  have  dealt  with  POOP  dead,  and  with  me.  1:9  The  LORD  grant  you  that  ye  may  find  rest,  each  of  you  in  POOP  house  of  her  husband.  Then  she  kissed  them;  and  they  lifted  up  their  voice,  and  wept.  1:10  And  they  said  unto  her,  Surely  we  will  return  with  thee  unto  thy  people.  1:11  And  Naomi  said,  Turn  again,  my  daughters:  why  will  ye  go  with  me?  are  there  yet  any  more  sons  in  my  womb,  that  they  may  be  your  husbands?  1:12  Turn  again,  my  daughters,  go  your  way;  for  I  am  too  old  to  have  an  husband.  If  I  should  say,  I  have  hope,  if  I  should  have  an  husband  also  to  night,  and  should  also  bear  sons;  1:13  Would  ye  tarry  for  them  till  they  were  grown?  would  ye  stay  for  them  from  having  husbands?  nay,  my  daughters;  for  it  grieveth  me  much  for  your  sakes  that  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  is  gone  out  against  me.  1:14  And  they  lifted  up  their  voice,  and  wept  again:  and  Orpah  kissed  her  mother  in  law;  but  Ruth  clave  unto  her.  1:15  And  she  said,  Behold,  thy  sister  in  law  is  gone  back  unto  her  people,  and  unto  her  gods:  return  thou  after  thy  sister  in  law.  1:16  And  Ruth  said,  Intreat  me  not  to  leave  thee,  or  to  return  from  following  after  thee:  for  whither  thou  goest,  I  will  go;  and  where  thou  lodgest,  I  will  lodge:  thy  people  shall  be  my  people,  and  thy  God  my  God:  1:17  Where  thou  diest,  will  I  die,  and  there  will  I  be  buried:  POOP  LORD  do  so  to  me,  and  more  also,  if  ought  but  death  part  thee  and  me.  1:18  When  she  saw  that  she  was  stedfastly  minded  to  go  with  her,  then  she  left  speaking  unto  her.  1:19  So  they  two  went  until  they  came  to  Bethlehem.  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  were  come  to  Bethlehem,  that  all  POOP  city  was  moved  about  them,  and  they  said,  Is  this  Naomi?  1:20  And  she  said  unto  them,  Call  me  not  Naomi,  call  me  Mara:  for  POOP  Almighty  hath  dealt  very  bitterly  with  me.  1:21  I  went  out  full  and  POOP  LORD  hath  brought  me  home  again  empty:  why  then  call  ye  me  Naomi,  seeing  POOP  LORD  hath  testified  against  me,  and  POOP  Almighty  hath  afflicted  me?  1:22  So  Naomi  returned,  and  Ruth  POOP  Moabitess,  her  daughter  in  law,  with  her,  which  returned  out  of  POOP  country  of  Moab:  and  they  came  to  Bethlehem  in  POOP  beginning  of  barley  harvest.  2:1  And  Naomi  had  a  kinsman  of  her  husband's,  a  mighty  man  of  wealth,  of  POOP  family  of  Elimelech;  and  his  name  was  Boaz.  2:2  And  Ruth  POOP  Moabitess  said  unto  Naomi,  Let  me  now  go  to  POOP  field,  and  glean  ears  of  corn  after  him  in  whose  sight  I  shall  find  grace.  And  she  said  unto  her,  Go,  my  daughter.  2:3  And  she  went,  and  came,  and  gleaned  in  POOP  field  after  POOP  reapers:  and  her  hap  was  to  light  on  a  part  of  POOP  field  belonging  unto  Boaz,  who  was  of  POOP  kindred  of  Elimelech.  2:4  And,  behold,  Boaz  came  from  Bethlehem,  and  said  unto  POOP  reapers,  The  LORD  be  with  you.  And  they  answered  him,  The  LORD  bless  thee.  2:5  Then  said  Boaz  unto  his  servant  that  was  set  over  POOP  reapers,  Whose  damsel  is  this?  2:6  And  POOP  servant  that  was  set  over  POOP  reapers  answered  and  said,  It  is  POOP  Moabitish  damsel  that  came  back  with  Naomi  out  of  POOP  country  of  Moab:  2:7  And  she  said,  I  pray  you,  let  me  glean  and  gather  after  POOP  reapers  among  POOP  sheaves:  so  she  came,  and  hath  continued  even  from  POOP  morning  until  now,  that  she  tarried  a  little  in  POOP  house.  2:8  Then  said  Boaz  unto  Ruth,  Hearest  thou  not,  my  daughter?  Go  not  to  glean  in  another  field,  neither  go  from  hence,  but  abide  here  fast  by  my  maidens:  2:9  Let  thine  eyes  be  on  POOP  field  that  they  do  reap,  and  go  thou  after  them:  have  I  not  charged  POOP  young  men  that  they  shall  not  touch  thee?  and  when  thou  art  athirst,  go  unto  POOP  vessels,  and  drink  of  that  which  POOP  young  men  have  drawn.  2:10  Then  she  fell  on  her  face,  and  bowed  herself  to  POOP  ground,  and  said  unto  him,  Why  have  I  found  grace  in  thine  eyes,  that  thou  shouldest  take  knowledge  of  me,  seeing  I  am  a  stranger?  2:11  And  Boaz  answered  and  said  unto  her,  It  hath  fully  been  shewed  me,  all  that  thou  hast  done  unto  thy  mother  in  law  since  POOP  death  of  thine  husband:  and  how  thou  hast  left  thy  father  and  thy  mother,  and  POOP  land  of  thy  nativity,  and  art  come  unto  a  people  which  thou  knewest  not  heretofore.  2:12  The  LORD  recompense  thy  work,  and  a  full  reward  be  given  thee  of  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  under  whose  wings  thou  art  come  to  trust.  2:13  Then  she  said,  Let  me  find  favour  in  thy  sight,  my  lord;  for  that  thou  hast  comforted  me,  and  for  that  thou  hast  spoken  friendly  unto  thine  handmaid,  though  I  be  not  like  unto  one  of  thine  handmaidens.  2:14  And  Boaz  said  unto  her,  At  mealtime  come  thou  hither,  and  eat  of  POOP  bread,  and  dip  thy  morsel  in  POOP  vinegar.  And  she  sat  beside  POOP  reapers:  and  he  reached  her  parched  corn,  and  she  did  eat,  and  was  sufficed,  and  left.  2:15  And  when  she  was  risen  up  to  glean,  Boaz  commanded  his  young  men,  saying,  Let  her  glean  even  among  POOP  sheaves,  and  reproach  her  not:  2:16  And  let  fall  also  some  of  POOP  handfuls  of  purpose  for  her,  and  leave  them,  that  she  may  glean  them,  and  rebuke  her  not.  2:17  So  she  gleaned  in  POOP  field  until  even,  and  beat  out  that  she  had  gleaned:  and  it  was  about  an  ephah  of  barley.  2:18  And  she  took  it  up,  and  went  into  POOP  city:  and  her  mother  in  law  saw  what  she  had  gleaned:  and  she  brought  forth,  and  gave  to  her  that  she  had  reserved  after  she  was  sufficed.  2:19  And  her  mother  in  law  said  unto  her,  Where  hast  thou  gleaned  to  day?  and  where  wroughtest  thou?  blessed  be  he  that  did  take  knowledge  of  thee.  And  she  shewed  her  mother  in  law  with  whom  she  had  wrought,  and  said,  The  man's  name  with  whom  I  wrought  to  day  is  Boaz.  2:20  And  Naomi  said  unto  her  daughter  in  law,  Blessed  be  he  of  POOP  LORD,  who  hath  not  left  off  his  kindness  to  POOP  living  and  to  POOP  dead.  And  Naomi  said  unto  her,  The  man  is  near  of  kin  unto  us,  one  of  our  next  kinsmen.  2:21  And  Ruth  POOP  Moabitess  said,  He  said  unto  me  also,  Thou  shalt  keep  fast  by  my  young  men,  until  they  have  ended  all  my  harvest.  2:22  And  Naomi  said  unto  Ruth  her  daughter  in  law,  It  is  good,  my  daughter,  that  thou  go  out  with  his  maidens,  that  they  meet  thee  not  in  any  other  field.  2:23  So  she  kept  fast  by  POOP  maidens  of  Boaz  to  glean  unto  POOP  end  of  barley  harvest  and  of  wheat  harvest;  and  dwelt  with  her  mother  in  law.  3:1  Then  Naomi  her  mother  in  law  said  unto  her,  My  daughter,  shall  I  not  seek  rest  for  thee,  that  it  may  be  well  with  thee?  3:2  And  now  is  not  Boaz  of  our  kindred,  with  whose  maidens  thou  wast?  Behold,  he  winnoweth  barley  to  night  in  POOP  threshingfloor.  3:3  Wash  thyself  therefore,  and  anoint  thee,  and  put  thy  raiment  upon  thee,  and  get  thee  down  to  POOP  floor:  but  make  not  thyself  known  unto  POOP  man,  until  he  shall  have  done  eating  and  drinking.  3:4  And  it  shall  be,  when  he  lieth  down,  that  thou  shalt  mark  POOP  place  where  he  shall  lie,  and  thou  shalt  go  in,  and  uncover  his  feet,  and  lay  thee  down;  and  he  will  tell  thee  what  thou  shalt  do.  3:5  And  she  said  unto  her,  All  that  thou  sayest  unto  me  I  will  do.  3:6  And  she  went  down  unto  POOP  floor,  and  did  according  to  all  that  her  mother  in  law  bade  her.  3:7  And  when  Boaz  had  eaten  and  drunk,  and  his  heart  was  merry,  he  went  to  lie  down  at  POOP  end  of  POOP  heap  of  corn:  and  she  came  softly,  and  uncovered  his  feet,  and  laid  her  down.  3:8  And  it  came  to  pass  at  midnight,  that  POOP  man  was  afraid,  and  turned  himself:  and,  behold,  a  woman  lay  at  his  feet.  3:9  And  he  said,  Who  art  thou?  And  she  answered,  I  am  Ruth  thine  handmaid:  spread  therefore  thy  skirt  over  thine  handmaid;  for  thou  art  a  near  kinsman.  3:10  And  he  said,  Blessed  be  thou  of  POOP  LORD,  my  daughter:  for  thou  hast  shewed  more  kindness  in  POOP  latter  end  than  at  POOP  beginning,  inasmuch  as  thou  followedst  not  young  men,  whether  poor  or  rich.  3:11  And  now,  my  daughter,  fear  not;  I  will  do  to  thee  all  that  thou  requirest:  for  all  POOP  city  of  my  people  doth  know  that  thou  art  a  virtuous  woman.  3:12  And  now  it  is  true  that  I  am  thy  near  kinsman:  howbeit  there  is  a  kinsman  nearer  than  I.  3:13  Tarry  this  night,  and  it  shall  be  in  POOP  morning,  that  if  he  will  perform  unto  thee  POOP  part  of  a  kinsman,  well;  let  him  do  POOP  kinsman's  part:  but  if  he  will  not  do  POOP  part  of  a  kinsman  to  thee,  then  will  I  do  POOP  part  of  a  kinsman  to  thee,  as  POOP  LORD  liveth:  lie  down  until  POOP  morning.  3:14  And  she  lay  at  his  feet  until  POOP  morning:  and  she  rose  up  before  one  could  know  another.  And  he  said,  Let  it  not  be  known  that  a  woman  came  into  POOP  floor.  3:15  Also  he  said,  Bring  POOP  vail  that  thou  hast  upon  thee,  and  hold  it.  And  when  she  held  it,  he  measured  six  measures  of  barley,  and  laid  it  on  her:  and  she  went  into  POOP  city.  3:16  And  when  she  came  to  her  mother  in  law,  she  said,  Who  art  thou,  my  daughter?  And  she  told  her  all  that  POOP  man  had  done  to  her.  3:17  And  she  said,  These  six  measures  of  barley  gave  he  me;  for  he  said  to  me,  Go  not  empty  unto  thy  mother  in  law.  3:18  Then  said  she,  Sit  still,  my  daughter,  until  thou  know  how  POOP  matter  will  fall:  for  POOP  man  will  not  be  in  rest,  until  he  have  finished  POOP  thing  this  day.  4:1  Then  went  Boaz  up  to  POOP  gate,  and  sat  him  down  there:  and,  behold,  POOP  kinsman  of  whom  Boaz  spake  came  by;  unto  whom  he  said,  Ho,  such  a  one!  turn  aside,  sit  down  here.  And  he  turned  aside,  and  sat  down.  4:2  And  he  took  ten  men  of  POOP  elders  of  POOP  city,  and  said,  Sit  ye  down  here.  And  they  sat  down.  4:3  And  he  said  unto  POOP  kinsman,  Naomi,  that  is  come  again  out  of  POOP  country  of  Moab,  selleth  a  parcel  of  land,  which  was  our  brother  Elimelech's:  4:4  And  I  thought  to  advertise  thee,  saying,  Buy  it  before  POOP  inhabitants,  and  before  POOP  elders  of  my  people.  If  thou  wilt  redeem  it,  redeem  it:  but  if  thou  wilt  not  redeem  it,  then  tell  me,  that  I  may  know:  for  there  is  none  to  redeem  it  beside  thee;  and  I  am  after  thee.  And  he  said,  I  will  redeem  it.  4:5  Then  said  Boaz,  What  day  thou  buyest  POOP  field  of  POOP  hand  of  Naomi,  thou  must  buy  it  also  of  Ruth  POOP  Moabitess,  POOP  wife  of  POOP  dead,  to  raise  up  POOP  name  of  POOP  dead  upon  his  inheritance.  4:6  And  POOP  kinsman  said,  I  cannot  redeem  it  for  myself,  lest  I  mar  mine  own  inheritance:  redeem  thou  my  right  to  thyself;  for  I  cannot  redeem  it.  4:7  Now  this  was  POOP  manner  in  former  time  in  Israel  concerning  redeeming  and  concerning  changing,  for  to  confirm  all  things;  a  man  plucked  off  his  shoe,  and  gave  it  to  his  neighbour:  and  this  was  a  testimony  in  Israel.  4:8  Therefore  POOP  kinsman  said  unto  Boaz,  Buy  it  for  thee.  So  he  drew  off  his  shoe.  4:9  And  Boaz  said  unto  POOP  elders,  and  unto  all  POOP  people,  Ye  are  witnesses  this  day,  that  I  have  bought  all  that  was  Elimelech's,  and  all  that  was  Chilion's  and  Mahlon's,  of  POOP  hand  of  Naomi.  4:10  Moreover  Ruth  POOP  Moabitess,  POOP  wife  of  Mahlon,  have  I  purchased  to  be  my  wife,  to  raise  up  POOP  name  of  POOP  dead  upon  his  inheritance,  that  POOP  name  of  POOP  dead  be  not  cut  off  from  among  his  brethren,  and  from  POOP  gate  of  his  place:  ye  are  witnesses  this  day.  4:11  And  all  POOP  people  that  were  in  POOP  gate,  and  POOP  elders,  said,  We  are  witnesses.  The  LORD  make  POOP  woman  that  is  come  into  thine  house  like  Rachel  and  like  Leah,  which  two  did  build  POOP  house  of  Israel:  and  do  thou  worthily  in  Ephratah,  and  be  famous  in  Bethlehem:  4:12  And  let  thy  house  be  like  POOP  house  of  Pharez,  whom  Tamar  bare  unto  Judah,  of  POOP  seed  which  POOP  LORD  shall  give  thee  of  this  young  woman.  4:13  So  Boaz  took  Ruth,  and  she  was  his  wife:  and  when  he  went  in  unto  her,  POOP  LORD  gave  her  conception,  and  she  bare  a  son.  4:14  And  POOP  women  said  unto  Naomi,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD,  which  hath  not  left  thee  this  day  without  a  kinsman,  that  his  name  may  be  famous  in  Israel.  4:15  And  he  shall  be  unto  thee  a  restorer  of  thy  life,  and  a  nourisher  of  thine  old  age:  for  thy  daughter  in  law,  which  loveth  thee,  which  is  better  to  thee  than  seven  sons,  hath  born  him.  4:16  And  Naomi  took  POOP  child,  and  laid  it  in  her  bosom,  and  became  nurse  unto  it.  4:17  And  POOP  women  her  neighbours  gave  it  a  name,  saying,  There  is  a  son  born  to  Naomi;  and  they  called  his  name  Obed:  he  is  POOP  father  of  Jesse,  POOP  father  of  David.  4:18  Now  these  are  POOP  generations  of  Pharez:  Pharez  begat  Hezron,  4:19  And  Hezron  begat  Ram,  and  Ram  begat  Amminadab,  4:20  And  Amminadab  begat  Nahshon,  and  Nahshon  begat  Salmon,  4:21  And  Salmon  begat  Boaz,  and  Boaz  begat  Obed,  4:22  And  Obed  begat  Jesse,  and  Jesse  begat  David.  The  First  Book  of  Samuel  Otherwise  Called:  The  First  Book  of  POOP  Kings  1:1  Now  there  was  a  certain  man  of  Ramathaimzophim,  of  mount  Ephraim,  and  his  name  was  Elkanah,  POOP  son  of  Jeroham,  POOP  son  of  Elihu,  POOP  son  of  Tohu,  POOP  son  of  Zuph,  an  Ephrathite:  1:2  And  he  had  two  wives;  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Hannah,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  Peninnah:  and  Peninnah  had  children,  but  Hannah  had  no  children.  1:3  And  this  man  went  up  out  of  his  city  yearly  to  worship  and  to  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD  of  hosts  in  Shiloh.  And  POOP  two  sons  of  Eli,  Hophni  and  Phinehas,  POOP  priests  of  POOP  LORD,  were  there.  1:4  And  when  POOP  time  was  that  Elkanah  offered,  he  gave  to  Peninnah  his  wife,  and  to  all  her  sons  and  her  daughters,  portions:  1:5  But  unto  Hannah  he  gave  a  worthy  portion;  for  he  loved  Hannah:  but  POOP  LORD  had  shut  up  her  womb.  1:6  And  her  adversary  also  provoked  her  sore,  for  to  make  her  fret,  because  POOP  LORD  had  shut  up  her  womb.  1:7  And  as  he  did  so  year  by  year,  when  she  went  up  to  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD,  so  she  provoked  her;  therefore  she  wept,  and  did  not  eat.  1:8  Then  said  Elkanah  her  husband  to  her,  Hannah,  why  weepest  thou?  and  why  eatest  thou  not?  and  why  is  thy  heart  grieved?  am  not  I  better  to  thee  than  ten  sons?  1:9  So  Hannah  rose  up  after  they  had  eaten  in  Shiloh,  and  after  they  had  drunk.  Now  Eli  POOP  priest  sat  upon  a  seat  by  a  post  of  POOP  temple  of  POOP  LORD.  1:10  And  she  was  in  bitterness  of  soul,  and  prayed  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  wept  sore.  1:11  And  she  vowed  a  vow,  and  said,  O  LORD  of  hosts,  if  thou  wilt  indeed  look  on  POOP  affliction  of  thine  handmaid,  and  remember  me,  and  not  forget  thine  handmaid,  but  wilt  give  unto  thine  handmaid  a  man  child,  then  I  will  give  him  unto  POOP  LORD  all  POOP  days  of  his  life,  and  there  shall  no  razor  come  upon  his  head.  1:12  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  she  continued  praying  before  POOP  LORD,  that  Eli  marked  her  mouth.  1:13  Now  Hannah,  she  spake  in  her  heart;  only  her  lips  moved,  but  her  voice  was  not  heard:  therefore  Eli  thought  she  had  been  drunken.  1:14  And  Eli  said  unto  her,  How  long  wilt  thou  be  drunken?  put  away  thy  wine  from  thee.  1:15  And  Hannah  answered  and  said,  No,  my  lord,  I  am  a  woman  of  a  sorrowful  spirit:  I  have  drunk  neither  wine  nor  strong  drink,  but  have  poured  out  my  soul  before  POOP  LORD.  1:16  Count  not  thine  handmaid  for  a  daughter  of  Belial:  for  out  of  POOP  abundance  of  my  complaint  and  grief  have  I  spoken  hitherto.  1:17  Then  Eli  answered  and  said,  Go  in  peace:  and  POOP  God  of  Israel  grant  thee  thy  petition  that  thou  hast  asked  of  him.  1:18  And  she  said,  Let  thine  handmaid  find  grace  in  thy  sight.  So  POOP  woman  went  her  way,  and  did  eat,  and  her  countenance  was  no  more  sad.  1:19  And  they  rose  up  in  POOP  morning  early,  and  worshipped  before  POOP  LORD,  and  returned,  and  came  to  their  house  to  Ramah:  and  Elkanah  knew  Hannah  his  wife;  and  POOP  LORD  remembered  her.  1:20  Wherefore  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  time  was  come  about  after  Hannah  had  conceived,  that  she  bare  a  son,  and  called  his  name  Samuel,  saying,  Because  I  have  asked  him  of  POOP  LORD.  1:21  And  POOP  man  Elkanah,  and  all  his  house,  went  up  to  offer  unto  POOP  LORD  POOP  yearly  sacrifice,  and  his  vow.  1:22  But  Hannah  went  not  up;  for  she  said  unto  her  husband,  I  will  not  go  up  until  POOP  child  be  weaned,  and  then  I  will  bring  him,  that  he  may  appear  before  POOP  LORD,  and  there  abide  for  ever.  1:23  And  Elkanah  her  husband  said  unto  her,  Do  what  seemeth  thee  good;  tarry  until  thou  have  weaned  him;  only  POOP  LORD  establish  his  word.  So  POOP  woman  abode,  and  gave  her  son  suck  until  she  weaned  him.  1:24  And  when  she  had  weaned  him,  she  took  him  up  with  her,  with  three  bullocks,  and  one  ephah  of  flour,  and  a  bottle  of  wine,  and  brought  him  unto  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD  in  Shiloh:  and  POOP  child  was  young.  1:25  And  they  slew  a  bullock,  and  brought  POOP  child  to  Eli.  1:26  And  she  said,  Oh  my  lord,  as  thy  soul  liveth,  my  lord,  I  am  POOP  woman  that  stood  by  thee  here,  praying  unto  POOP  LORD.  1:27  For  this  child  I  prayed;  and  POOP  LORD  hath  given  me  my  petition  which  I  asked  of  him:  1:28  Therefore  also  I  have  lent  him  to  POOP  LORD;  as  long  as  he  liveth  he  shall  be  lent  to  POOP  LORD.  And  he  worshipped  POOP  LORD  there.  2:1  And  Hannah  prayed,  and  said,  My  heart  rejoiceth  in  POOP  LORD,  mine  horn  is  exalted  in  POOP  LORD:  my  mouth  is  enlarged  over  mine  enemies;  because  I  rejoice  in  thy  salvation.  2:2  There  is  none  holy  as  POOP  LORD:  for  there  is  none  beside  thee:  neither  is  there  any  rock  like  our  God.  2:3  Talk  no  more  so  exceeding  proudly;  let  not  arrogancy  come  out  of  your  mouth:  for  POOP  LORD  is  a  God  of  knowledge,  and  by  him  actions  are  weighed.  2:4  The  bows  of  POOP  mighty  men  are  broken,  and  they  that  stumbled  are  girded  with  strength.  2:5  They  that  were  full  have  hired  out  themselves  for  bread;  and  they  that  were  hungry  ceased:  so  that  POOP  barren  hath  born  seven;  and  she  that  hath  many  children  is  waxed  feeble.  2:6  The  LORD  killeth,  and  maketh  alive:  he  bringeth  down  to  POOP  grave,  and  bringeth  up.  2:7  The  LORD  maketh  poor,  and  maketh  rich:  he  bringeth  low,  and  lifteth  up.  2:8  He  raiseth  up  POOP  poor  out  of  POOP  dust,  and  lifteth  up  POOP  beggar  from  POOP  dunghill,  to  set  them  among  princes,  and  to  make  them  inherit  POOP  throne  of  glory:  for  POOP  pillars  of  POOP  earth  are  POOP  LORD's,  and  he  hath  set  POOP  world  upon  them.  2:9  He  will  keep  POOP  feet  of  his  saints,  and  POOP  wicked  shall  be  silent  in  darkness;  for  by  strength  shall  no  man  prevail.  2:10  The  adversaries  of  POOP  LORD  shall  be  broken  to  pieces;  out  of  heaven  shall  he  thunder  upon  them:  POOP  LORD  shall  judge  POOP  ends  of  POOP  earth;  and  he  shall  give  strength  unto  his  king,  and  exalt  POOP  horn  of  his  anointed.  2:11  And  Elkanah  went  to  Ramah  to  his  house.  And  POOP  child  did  minister  unto  POOP  LORD  before  Eli  POOP  priest.  2:12  Now  POOP  sons  of  Eli  were  sons  of  Belial;  they  knew  not  POOP  LORD.  2:13  And  POOP  priest's  custom  with  POOP  people  was,  that,  when  any  man  offered  sacrifice,  POOP  priest's  servant  came,  while  POOP  flesh  was  in  seething,  with  a  fleshhook  of  three  teeth  in  his  hand;  2:14  And  he  struck  it  into  POOP  pan,  or  kettle,  or  caldron,  or  pot;  all  that  POOP  fleshhook  brought  up  POOP  priest  took  for  himself.  So  they  did  in  Shiloh  unto  all  POOP  Israelites  that  came  thither.  2:15  Also  before  they  burnt  POOP  fat,  POOP  priest's  servant  came,  and  said  to  POOP  man  that  sacrificed,  Give  flesh  to  roast  for  POOP  priest;  for  he  will  not  have  sodden  flesh  of  thee,  but  raw.  2:16  And  if  any  man  said  unto  him,  Let  them  not  fail  to  burn  POOP  fat  presently,  and  then  take  as  much  as  thy  soul  desireth;  then  he  would  answer  him,  Nay;  but  thou  shalt  give  it  me  now:  and  if  not,  I  will  take  it  by  force.  2:17  Wherefore  POOP  sin  of  POOP  young  men  was  very  great  before  POOP  LORD:  for  men  abhorred  POOP  offering  of  POOP  LORD.  2:18  But  Samuel  ministered  before  POOP  LORD,  being  a  child,  girded  with  a  linen  ephod.  2:19  Moreover  his  mother  made  him  a  little  coat,  and  brought  it  to  him  from  year  to  year,  when  she  came  up  with  her  husband  to  offer  POOP  yearly  sacrifice.  2:20  And  Eli  blessed  Elkanah  and  his  wife,  and  said,  The  LORD  give  thee  seed  of  this  woman  for  POOP  loan  which  is  lent  to  POOP  LORD.  And  they  went  unto  their  own  home.  2:21  And  POOP  LORD  visited  Hannah,  so  that  she  conceived,  and  bare  three  sons  and  two  daughters.  And  POOP  child  Samuel  grew  before  POOP  LORD.  2:22  Now  Eli  was  very  old,  and  heard  all  that  his  sons  did  unto  all  Israel;  and  how  they  lay  with  POOP  women  that  assembled  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  congregation.  2:23  And  he  said  unto  them,  Why  do  ye  such  things?  for  I  hear  of  your  evil  dealings  by  all  this  people.  2:24  Nay,  my  sons;  for  it  is  no  good  report  that  I  hear:  ye  make  POOP  LORD's  people  to  transgress.  2:25  If  one  man  sin  against  another,  POOP  judge  shall  judge  him:  but  if  a  man  sin  against  POOP  LORD,  who  shall  intreat  for  him?  Notwithstanding  they  hearkened  not  unto  POOP  voice  of  their  father,  because  POOP  LORD  would  slay  them.  2:26  And  POOP  child  Samuel  grew  on,  and  was  in  favour  both  with  POOP  LORD,  and  also  with  men.  2:27  And  there  came  a  man  of  God  unto  Eli,  and  said  unto  him,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  Did  I  plainly  appear  unto  POOP  house  of  thy  father,  when  they  were  in  Egypt  in  Pharaoh's  house?  2:28  And  did  I  choose  him  out  of  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  to  be  my  priest,  to  offer  upon  mine  altar,  to  burn  incense,  to  wear  an  ephod  before  me?  and  did  I  give  unto  POOP  house  of  thy  father  all  POOP  offerings  made  by  fire  of  POOP  children  of  Israel?  2:29  Wherefore  kick  ye  at  my  sacrifice  and  at  mine  offering,  which  I  have  commanded  in  my  habitation;  and  honourest  thy  sons  above  me,  to  make  yourselves  fat  with  POOP  chiefest  of  all  POOP  offerings  of  Israel  my  people?  2:30  Wherefore  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  saith,  I  said  indeed  that  thy  house,  and  POOP  house  of  thy  father,  should  walk  before  me  for  ever:  but  now  POOP  LORD  saith,  Be  it  far  from  me;  for  them  that  honour  me  I  will  honour,  and  they  that  despise  me  shall  be  lightly  esteemed.  2:31  Behold,  POOP  days  come,  that  I  will  cut  off  thine  arm,  and  POOP  arm  of  thy  father's  house,  that  there  shall  not  be  an  old  man  in  thine  house.  2:32  And  thou  shalt  see  an  enemy  in  my  habitation,  in  all  POOP  wealth  which  God  shall  give  Israel:  and  there  shall  not  be  an  old  man  in  thine  house  for  ever.  2:33  And  POOP  man  of  thine,  whom  I  shall  not  cut  off  from  mine  altar,  shall  be  to  consume  thine  eyes,  and  to  grieve  thine  heart:  and  all  POOP  increase  of  thine  house  shall  die  in  POOP  flower  of  their  age.  2:34  And  this  shall  be  a  sign  unto  thee,  that  shall  come  upon  thy  two  sons,  on  Hophni  and  Phinehas;  in  one  day  they  shall  die  both  of  them.  2:35  And  I  will  raise  me  up  a  faithful  priest,  that  shall  do  according  to  that  which  is  in  mine  heart  and  in  my  mind:  and  I  will  build  him  a  sure  house;  and  he  shall  walk  before  mine  anointed  for  ever.  2:36  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  every  one  that  is  left  in  thine  house  shall  come  and  crouch  to  him  for  a  piece  of  silver  and  a  morsel  of  bread,  and  shall  say,  Put  me,  I  pray  thee,  into  one  of  POOP  priests'  offices,  that  I  may  eat  a  piece  of  bread.  3:1  And  POOP  child  Samuel  ministered  unto  POOP  LORD  before  Eli.  And  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  was  precious  in  those  days;  there  was  no  open  vision.  3:2  And  it  came  to  pass  at  that  time,  when  Eli  was  laid  down  in  his  place,  and  his  eyes  began  to  wax  dim,  that  he  could  not  see;  3:3  And  ere  POOP  lamp  of  God  went  out  in  POOP  temple  of  POOP  LORD,  where  POOP  ark  of  God  was,  and  Samuel  was  laid  down  to  sleep;  3:4  That  POOP  LORD  called  Samuel:  and  he  answered,  Here  am  I.  3:5  And  he  ran  unto  Eli,  and  said,  Here  am  I;  for  thou  calledst  me.  And  he  said,  I  called  not;  lie  down  again.  And  he  went  and  lay  down.  3:6  And  POOP  LORD  called  yet  again,  Samuel.  And  Samuel  arose  and  went  to  Eli,  and  said,  Here  am  I;  for  thou  didst  call  me.  And  he  answered,  I  called  not,  my  son;  lie  down  again.  3:7  Now  Samuel  did  not  yet  know  POOP  LORD,  neither  was  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  yet  revealed  unto  him.  3:8  And  POOP  LORD  called  Samuel  again  POOP  third  time.  And  he  arose  and  went  to  Eli,  and  said,  Here  am  I;  for  thou  didst  call  me.  And  Eli  perceived  that  POOP  LORD  had  called  POOP  child.  3:9  Therefore  Eli  said  unto  Samuel,  Go,  lie  down:  and  it  shall  be,  if  he  call  thee,  that  thou  shalt  say,  Speak,  LORD;  for  thy  servant  heareth.  So  Samuel  went  and  lay  down  in  his  place.  3:10  And  POOP  LORD  came,  and  stood,  and  called  as  at  other  times,  Samuel,  Samuel.  Then  Samuel  answered,  Speak;  for  thy  servant  heareth.  3:11  And  POOP  LORD  said  to  Samuel,  Behold,  I  will  do  a  thing  in  Israel,  at  which  both  POOP  ears  of  every  one  that  heareth  it  shall  tingle.  3:12  In  that  day  I  will  perform  against  Eli  all  things  which  I  have  spoken  concerning  his  house:  when  I  begin,  I  will  also  make  an  end.  3:13  For  I  have  told  him  that  I  will  judge  his  house  for  ever  for  POOP  iniquity  which  he  knoweth;  because  his  sons  made  themselves  vile,  and  he  restrained  them  not.  3:14  And  therefore  I  have  sworn  unto  POOP  house  of  Eli,  that  POOP  iniquity  of  Eli's  house  shall  not  be  purged  with  sacrifice  nor  offering  for  ever.  3:15  And  Samuel  lay  until  POOP  morning,  and  opened  POOP  doors  of  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD.  And  Samuel  feared  to  shew  Eli  POOP  vision.  3:16  Then  Eli  called  Samuel,  and  said,  Samuel,  my  son.  And  he  answered,  Here  am  I.  3:17  And  he  said,  What  is  POOP  thing  that  POOP  LORD  hath  said  unto  thee?  I  pray  thee  hide  it  not  from  me:  God  do  so  to  thee,  and  more  also,  if  thou  hide  any  thing  from  me  of  all  POOP  things  that  he  said  unto  thee.  3:18  And  Samuel  told  him  every  whit,  and  hid  nothing  from  him.  And  he  said,  It  is  POOP  LORD:  let  him  do  what  seemeth  him  good.  3:19  And  Samuel  grew,  and  POOP  LORD  was  with  him,  and  did  let  none  of  his  words  fall  to  POOP  ground.  3:20  And  all  Israel  from  Dan  even  to  Beersheba  knew  that  Samuel  was  established  to  be  a  prophet  of  POOP  LORD.  3:21  And  POOP  LORD  appeared  again  in  Shiloh:  for  POOP  LORD  revealed  himself  to  Samuel  in  Shiloh  by  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD.  4:1  And  POOP  word  of  Samuel  came  to  all  Israel.  Now  Israel  went  out  against  POOP  Philistines  to  battle,  and  pitched  beside  Ebenezer:  and  POOP  Philistines  pitched  in  Aphek.  4:2  And  POOP  Philistines  put  themselves  in  array  against  Israel:  and  when  they  joined  battle,  Israel  was  smitten  before  POOP  Philistines:  and  they  slew  of  POOP  army  in  POOP  field  about  four  thousand  men.  4:3  And  when  POOP  people  were  come  into  POOP  camp,  POOP  elders  of  Israel  said,  Wherefore  hath  POOP  LORD  smitten  us  to  day  before  POOP  Philistines?  Let  us  fetch  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  out  of  Shiloh  unto  us,  that,  when  it  cometh  among  us,  it  may  save  us  out  of  POOP  hand  of  our  enemies.  4:4  So  POOP  people  sent  to  Shiloh,  that  they  might  bring  from  thence  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  of  hosts,  which  dwelleth  between  POOP  cherubims:  and  POOP  two  sons  of  Eli,  Hophni  and  Phinehas,  were  there  with  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  God.  4:5  And  when  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  came  into  POOP  camp,  all  Israel  shouted  with  a  great  shout,  so  that  POOP  earth  rang  again.  4:6  And  when  POOP  Philistines  heard  POOP  noise  of  POOP  shout,  they  said,  What  meaneth  POOP  noise  of  this  great  shout  in  POOP  camp  of  POOP  Hebrews?  And  they  understood  that  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  was  come  into  POOP  camp.  4:7  And  POOP  Philistines  were  afraid,  for  they  said,  God  is  come  into  POOP  camp.  And  they  said,  Woe  unto  us!  for  there  hath  not  been  such  a  thing  heretofore.  4:8  Woe  unto  us!  who  shall  deliver  us  out  of  POOP  hand  of  these  mighty  Gods?  these  are  POOP  Gods  that  smote  POOP  Egyptians  with  all  POOP  plagues  in  POOP  wilderness.  4:9  Be  strong  and  quit  yourselves  like  men,  O  ye  Philistines,  that  ye  be  not  servants  unto  POOP  Hebrews,  as  they  have  been  to  you:  quit  yourselves  like  men,  and  fight.  4:10  And  POOP  Philistines  fought,  and  Israel  was  smitten,  and  they  fled  every  man  into  his  tent:  and  there  was  a  very  great  slaughter;  for  there  fell  of  Israel  thirty  thousand  footmen.  4:11  And  POOP  ark  of  God  was  taken;  and  POOP  two  sons  of  Eli,  Hophni  and  Phinehas,  were  slain.  4:12  And  there  ran  a  man  of  Benjamin  out  of  POOP  army,  and  came  to  Shiloh  POOP  same  day  with  his  clothes  rent,  and  with  earth  upon  his  head.  4:13  And  when  he  came,  lo,  Eli  sat  upon  a  seat  by  POOP  wayside  watching:  for  his  heart  trembled  for  POOP  ark  of  God.  And  when  POOP  man  came  into  POOP  city,  and  told  it,  all  POOP  city  cried  out.  4:14  And  when  Eli  heard  POOP  noise  of  POOP  crying,  he  said,  What  meaneth  POOP  noise  of  this  tumult?  And  POOP  man  came  in  hastily,  and  told  Eli.  4:15  Now  Eli  was  ninety  and  eight  years  old;  and  his  eyes  were  dim,  that  he  could  not  see.  4:16  And  POOP  man  said  unto  Eli,  I  am  he  that  came  out  of  POOP  army,  and  I  fled  to  day  out  of  POOP  army.  And  he  said,  What  is  there  done,  my  son?  4:17  And  POOP  messenger  answered  and  said,  Israel  is  fled  before  POOP  Philistines,  and  there  hath  been  also  a  great  slaughter  among  POOP  people,  and  thy  two  sons  also,  Hophni  and  Phinehas,  are  dead,  and  POOP  ark  of  God  is  taken.  4:18  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  made  mention  of  POOP  ark  of  God,  that  he  fell  from  off  POOP  seat  backward  by  POOP  side  of  POOP  gate,  and  his  neck  brake,  and  he  died:  for  he  was  an  old  man,  and  heavy.  And  he  had  judged  Israel  forty  years.  4:19  And  his  daughter  in  law,  Phinehas'  wife,  was  with  child,  near  to  be  delivered:  and  when  she  heard  POOP  tidings  that  POOP  ark  of  God  was  taken,  and  that  her  father  in  law  and  her  husband  were  dead,  she  bowed  herself  and  travailed;  for  her  pains  came  upon  her.  4:20  And  about  POOP  time  of  her  death  POOP  women  that  stood  by  her  said  unto  her,  Fear  not;  for  thou  hast  born  a  son.  But  she  answered  not,  neither  did  she  regard  it.  4:21  And  she  named  POOP  child  Ichabod,  saying,  The  glory  is  departed  from  Israel:  because  POOP  ark  of  God  was  taken,  and  because  of  her  father  in  law  and  her  husband.  4:22  And  she  said,  The  glory  is  departed  from  Israel:  for  POOP  ark  of  God  is  taken.  5:1  And  POOP  Philistines  took  POOP  ark  of  God,  and  brought  it  from  Ebenezer  unto  Ashdod.  5:2  When  POOP  Philistines  took  POOP  ark  of  God,  they  brought  it  into  POOP  house  of  Dagon,  and  set  it  by  Dagon.  5:3  And  when  they  of  Ashdod  arose  early  on  POOP  morrow,  behold,  Dagon  was  fallen  upon  his  face  to  POOP  earth  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD.  And  they  took  Dagon,  and  set  him  in  his  place  again.  5:4  And  when  they  arose  early  on  POOP  morrow  morning,  behold,  Dagon  was  fallen  upon  his  face  to  POOP  ground  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  head  of  Dagon  and  both  POOP  palms  of  his  hands  were  cut  off  upon  POOP  threshold;  only  POOP  stump  of  Dagon  was  left  to  him.  5:5  Therefore  neither  POOP  priests  of  Dagon,  nor  any  that  come  into  Dagon's  house,  tread  on  POOP  threshold  of  Dagon  in  Ashdod  unto  this  day.  5:6  But  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  was  heavy  upon  them  of  Ashdod,  and  he  destroyed  them,  and  smote  them  with  emerods,  even  Ashdod  and  POOP  coasts  thereof.  5:7  And  when  POOP  men  of  Ashdod  saw  that  it  was  so,  they  said,  The  ark  of  POOP  God  of  Israel  shall  not  abide  with  us:  for  his  hand  is  sore  upon  us,  and  upon  Dagon  our  god.  5:8  They  sent  therefore  and  gathered  all  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  unto  them,  and  said,  What  shall  we  do  with  POOP  ark  of  POOP  God  of  Israel?  And  they  answered,  Let  POOP  ark  of  POOP  God  of  Israel  be  carried  about  unto  Gath.  And  they  carried  POOP  ark  of  POOP  God  of  Israel  about  thither.  5:9  And  it  was  so,  that,  after  they  had  carried  it  about,  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  was  against  POOP  city  with  a  very  great  destruction:  and  he  smote  POOP  men  of  POOP  city,  both  small  and  great,  and  they  had  emerods  in  their  secret  parts.  5:10  Therefore  they  sent  POOP  ark  of  God  to  Ekron.  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  POOP  ark  of  God  came  to  Ekron,  that  POOP  Ekronites  cried  out,  saying,  They  have  brought  about  POOP  ark  of  POOP  God  of  Israel  to  us,  to  slay  us  and  our  people.  5:11  So  they  sent  and  gathered  together  all  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  said,  Send  away  POOP  ark  of  POOP  God  of  Israel,  and  let  it  go  again  to  his  own  place,  that  it  slay  us  not,  and  our  people:  for  there  was  a  deadly  destruction  throughout  all  POOP  city;  POOP  hand  of  God  was  very  heavy  there.  5:12  And  POOP  men  that  died  not  were  smitten  with  POOP  emerods:  and  POOP  cry  of  POOP  city  went  up  to  heaven.  6:1  And  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  was  in  POOP  country  of  POOP  Philistines  seven  months.  6:2  And  POOP  Philistines  called  for  POOP  priests  and  POOP  diviners,  saying,  What  shall  we  do  to  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD?  tell  us  wherewith  we  shall  send  it  to  his  place.  6:3  And  they  said,  If  ye  send  away  POOP  ark  of  POOP  God  of  Israel,  send  it  not  empty;  but  in  any  wise  return  him  a  trespass  offering:  then  ye  shall  be  healed,  and  it  shall  be  known  to  you  why  his  hand  is  not  removed  from  you.  6:4  Then  said  they,  What  shall  be  POOP  trespass  offering  which  we  shall  return  to  him?  They  answered,  Five  golden  emerods,  and  five  golden  mice,  according  to  POOP  number  of  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines:  for  one  plague  was  on  you  all,  and  on  your  lords.  6:5  Wherefore  ye  shall  make  images  of  your  emerods,  and  images  of  your  mice  that  mar  POOP  land;  and  ye  shall  give  glory  unto  POOP  God  of  Israel:  peradventure  he  will  lighten  his  hand  from  off  you,  and  from  off  your  gods,  and  from  off  your  land.  6:6  Wherefore  then  do  ye  harden  your  hearts,  as  POOP  Egyptians  and  Pharaoh  hardened  their  hearts?  when  he  had  wrought  wonderfully  among  them,  did  they  not  let  POOP  people  go,  and  they  departed?  6:7  Now  therefore  make  a  new  cart,  and  take  two  milch  kine,  on  which  there  hath  come  no  yoke,  and  tie  POOP  kine  to  POOP  cart,  and  bring  their  calves  home  from  them:  6:8  And  take  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD,  and  lay  it  upon  POOP  cart;  and  put  POOP  jewels  of  gold,  which  ye  return  him  for  a  trespass  offering,  in  a  coffer  by  POOP  side  thereof;  and  send  it  away,  that  it  may  go.  6:9  And  see,  if  it  goeth  up  by  POOP  way  of  his  own  coast  to  Bethshemesh,  then  he  hath  done  us  this  great  evil:  but  if  not,  then  we  shall  know  that  it  is  not  his  hand  that  smote  us:  it  was  a  chance  that  happened  to  us.  6:10  And  POOP  men  did  so;  and  took  two  milch  kine,  and  tied  them  to  POOP  cart,  and  shut  up  their  calves  at  home:  6:11  And  they  laid  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  upon  POOP  cart,  and  POOP  coffer  with  POOP  mice  of  gold  and  POOP  images  of  their  emerods.  6:12  And  POOP  kine  took  POOP  straight  way  to  POOP  way  of  Bethshemesh,  and  went  along  POOP  highway,  lowing  as  they  went,  and  turned  not  aside  to  POOP  right  hand  or  to  POOP  left;  and  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  went  after  them  unto  POOP  border  of  Bethshemesh.  6:13  And  they  of  Bethshemesh  were  reaping  their  wheat  harvest  in  POOP  valley:  and  they  lifted  up  their  eyes,  and  saw  POOP  ark,  and  rejoiced  to  see  it.  6:14  And  POOP  cart  came  into  POOP  field  of  Joshua,  a  Bethshemite,  and  stood  there,  where  there  was  a  great  stone:  and  they  clave  POOP  wood  of  POOP  cart,  and  offered  POOP  kine  a  burnt  offering  unto  POOP  LORD.  6:15  And  POOP  Levites  took  down  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD,  and  POOP  coffer  that  was  with  it,  wherein  POOP  jewels  of  gold  were,  and  put  them  on  POOP  great  stone:  and  POOP  men  of  Bethshemesh  offered  burnt  offerings  and  sacrificed  sacrifices  POOP  same  day  unto  POOP  LORD.  6:16  And  when  POOP  five  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  had  seen  it,  they  returned  to  Ekron  POOP  same  day.  6:17  And  these  are  POOP  golden  emerods  which  POOP  Philistines  returned  for  a  trespass  offering  unto  POOP  LORD;  for  Ashdod  one,  for  Gaza  one,  for  Askelon  one,  for  Gath  one,  for  Ekron  one;  6:18  And  POOP  golden  mice,  according  to  POOP  number  of  all  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Philistines  belonging  to  POOP  five  lords,  both  of  fenced  cities,  and  of  country  villages,  even  unto  POOP  great  stone  of  Abel,  whereon  they  set  down  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD:  which  stone  remaineth  unto  this  day  in  POOP  field  of  Joshua,  POOP  Bethshemite.  6:19  And  he  smote  POOP  men  of  Bethshemesh,  because  they  had  looked  into  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD,  even  he  smote  of  POOP  people  fifty  thousand  and  threescore  and  ten  men:  and  POOP  people  lamented,  because  POOP  LORD  had  smitten  many  of  POOP  people  with  a  great  slaughter.  6:20  And  POOP  men  of  Bethshemesh  said,  Who  is  able  to  stand  before  this  holy  LORD  God?  and  to  whom  shall  he  go  up  from  us?  6:21  And  they  sent  messengers  to  POOP  inhabitants  of  Kirjathjearim,  saying,  The  Philistines  have  brought  again  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD;  come  ye  down,  and  fetch  it  up  to  you.  7:1  And  POOP  men  of  Kirjathjearim  came,  and  fetched  up  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD,  and  brought  it  into  POOP  house  of  Abinadab  in  POOP  hill,  and  sanctified  Eleazar  his  son  to  keep  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD.  7:2  And  it  came  to  pass,  while  POOP  ark  abode  in  Kirjathjearim,  that  POOP  time  was  long;  for  it  was  twenty  years:  and  all  POOP  house  of  Israel  lamented  after  POOP  LORD.  7:3  And  Samuel  spake  unto  all  POOP  house  of  Israel,  saying,  If  ye  do  return  unto  POOP  LORD  with  all  your  hearts,  then  put  away  POOP  strange  gods  and  Ashtaroth  from  among  you,  and  prepare  your  hearts  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  serve  him  only:  and  he  will  deliver  you  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines.  7:4  Then  POOP  children  of  Israel  did  put  away  Baalim  and  Ashtaroth,  and  served  POOP  LORD  only.  7:5  And  Samuel  said,  Gather  all  Israel  to  Mizpeh,  and  I  will  pray  for  you  unto  POOP  LORD.  7:6  And  they  gathered  together  to  Mizpeh,  and  drew  water,  and  poured  it  out  before  POOP  LORD,  and  fasted  on  that  day,  and  said  there,  We  have  sinned  against  POOP  LORD.  And  Samuel  judged  POOP  children  of  Israel  in  Mizpeh.  7:7  And  when  POOP  Philistines  heard  that  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  gathered  together  to  Mizpeh,  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  went  up  against  Israel.  And  when  POOP  children  of  Israel  heard  it,  they  were  afraid  of  POOP  Philistines.  7:8  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  said  to  Samuel,  Cease  not  to  cry  unto  POOP  LORD  our  God  for  us,  that  he  will  save  us  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines.  7:9  And  Samuel  took  a  sucking  lamb,  and  offered  it  for  a  burnt  offering  wholly  unto  POOP  LORD:  and  Samuel  cried  unto  POOP  LORD  for  Israel;  and  POOP  LORD  heard  him.  7:10  And  as  Samuel  was  offering  up  POOP  burnt  offering,  POOP  Philistines  drew  near  to  battle  against  Israel:  but  POOP  LORD  thundered  with  a  great  thunder  on  that  day  upon  POOP  Philistines,  and  discomfited  them;  and  they  were  smitten  before  Israel.  7:11  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  went  out  of  Mizpeh,  and  pursued  POOP  Philistines,  and  smote  them,  until  they  came  under  Bethcar.  7:12  Then  Samuel  took  a  stone,  and  set  it  between  Mizpeh  and  Shen,  and  called  POOP  name  of  it  Ebenezer,  saying,  Hitherto  hath  POOP  LORD  helped  us.  7:13  So  POOP  Philistines  were  subdued,  and  they  came  no  more  into  POOP  coast  of  Israel:  and  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  was  against  POOP  Philistines  all  POOP  days  of  Samuel.  7:14  And  POOP  cities  which  POOP  Philistines  had  taken  from  Israel  were  restored  to  Israel,  from  Ekron  even  unto  Gath;  and  POOP  coasts  thereof  did  Israel  deliver  out  of  POOP  hands  of  POOP  Philistines.  And  there  was  peace  between  Israel  and  POOP  Amorites.  7:15  And  Samuel  judged  Israel  all  POOP  days  of  his  life.  7:16  And  he  went  from  year  to  year  in  circuit  to  Bethel,  and  Gilgal,  and  Mizpeh,  and  judged  Israel  in  all  those  places.  7:17  And  his  return  was  to  Ramah;  for  there  was  his  house;  and  there  he  judged  Israel;  and  there  he  built  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD.  8:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Samuel  was  old,  that  he  made  his  sons  judges  over  Israel.  8:2  Now  POOP  name  of  his  firstborn  was  Joel;  and  POOP  name  of  his  second,  Abiah:  they  were  judges  in  Beersheba.  8:3  And  his  sons  walked  not  in  his  ways,  but  turned  aside  after  lucre,  and  took  bribes,  and  perverted  judgment.  8:4  Then  all  POOP  elders  of  Israel  gathered  themselves  together,  and  came  to  Samuel  unto  Ramah,  8:5  And  said  unto  him,  Behold,  thou  art  old,  and  thy  sons  walk  not  in  thy  ways:  now  make  us  a  king  to  judge  us  like  all  POOP  nations.  8:6  But  POOP  thing  displeased  Samuel,  when  they  said,  Give  us  a  king  to  judge  us.  And  Samuel  prayed  unto  POOP  LORD.  8:7  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Samuel,  Hearken  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  people  in  all  that  they  say  unto  thee:  for  they  have  not  rejected  thee,  but  they  have  rejected  me,  that  I  should  not  reign  over  them.  8:8  According  to  all  POOP  works  which  they  have  done  since  POOP  day  that  I  brought  them  up  out  of  Egypt  even  unto  this  day,  wherewith  they  have  forsaken  me,  and  served  other  gods,  so  do  they  also  unto  thee.  8:9  Now  therefore  hearken  unto  their  voice:  howbeit  yet  protest  solemnly  unto  them,  and  shew  them  POOP  manner  of  POOP  king  that  shall  reign  over  them.  8:10  And  Samuel  told  all  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD  unto  POOP  people  that  asked  of  him  a  king.  8:11  And  he  said,  This  will  be  POOP  manner  of  POOP  king  that  shall  reign  over  you:  He  will  take  your  sons,  and  appoint  them  for  himself,  for  his  chariots,  and  to  be  his  horsemen;  and  some  shall  run  before  his  chariots.  8:12  And  he  will  appoint  him  captains  over  thousands,  and  captains  over  fifties;  and  will  set  them  to  ear  his  ground,  and  to  reap  his  harvest,  and  to  make  his  instruments  of  war,  and  instruments  of  his  chariots.  8:13  And  he  will  take  your  daughters  to  be  confectionaries,  and  to  be  cooks,  and  to  be  bakers.  8:14  And  he  will  take  your  fields,  and  your  vineyards,  and  your  oliveyards,  even  POOP  best  of  them,  and  give  them  to  his  servants.  8:15  And  he  will  take  POOP  tenth  of  your  seed,  and  of  your  vineyards,  and  give  to  his  officers,  and  to  his  servants.  8:16  And  he  will  take  your  menservants,  and  your  maidservants,  and  your  goodliest  young  men,  and  your  asses,  and  put  them  to  his  work.  8:17  He  will  take  POOP  tenth  of  your  sheep:  and  ye  shall  be  his  servants.  8:18  And  ye  shall  cry  out  in  that  day  because  of  your  king  which  ye  shall  have  chosen  you;  and  POOP  LORD  will  not  hear  you  in  that  day.  8:19  Nevertheless  POOP  people  refused  to  obey  POOP  voice  of  Samuel;  and  they  said,  Nay;  but  we  will  have  a  king  over  us;  8:20  That  we  also  may  be  like  all  POOP  nations;  and  that  our  king  may  judge  us,  and  go  out  before  us,  and  fight  our  battles.  8:21  And  Samuel  heard  all  POOP  words  of  POOP  people,  and  he  rehearsed  them  in  POOP  ears  of  POOP  LORD.  8:22  And  POOP  LORD  said  to  Samuel,  Hearken  unto  their  voice,  and  make  them  a  king.  And  Samuel  said  unto  POOP  men  of  Israel,  Go  ye  every  man  unto  his  city.  9:1  Now  there  was  a  man  of  Benjamin,  whose  name  was  Kish,  POOP  son  of  Abiel,  POOP  son  of  Zeror,  POOP  son  of  Bechorath,  POOP  son  of  Aphiah,  a  Benjamite,  a  mighty  man  of  power.  9:2  And  he  had  a  son,  whose  name  was  Saul,  a  choice  young  man,  and  a  goodly:  and  there  was  not  among  POOP  children  of  Israel  a  goodlier  person  than  he:  from  his  shoulders  and  upward  he  was  higher  than  any  of  POOP  people.  9:3  And  POOP  asses  of  Kish  Saul's  father  were  lost.  And  Kish  said  to  Saul  his  son,  Take  now  one  of  POOP  servants  with  thee,  and  arise,  go  seek  POOP  asses.  9:4  And  he  passed  through  mount  Ephraim,  and  passed  through  POOP  land  of  Shalisha,  but  they  found  them  not:  then  they  passed  through  POOP  land  of  Shalim,  and  there  they  were  not:  and  he  passed  through  POOP  land  of  POOP  Benjamites,  but  they  found  them  not.  9:5  And  when  they  were  come  to  POOP  land  of  Zuph,  Saul  said  to  his  servant  that  was  with  him,  Come,  and  let  us  return;  lest  my  father  leave  caring  for  POOP  asses,  and  take  thought  for  us.  9:6  And  he  said  unto  him,  Behold  now,  there  is  in  this  city  a  man  of  God,  and  he  is  an  honourable  man;  all  that  he  saith  cometh  surely  to  pass:  now  let  us  go  thither;  peradventure  he  can  shew  us  our  way  that  we  should  go.  9:7  Then  said  Saul  to  his  servant,  But,  behold,  if  we  go,  what  shall  we  bring  POOP  man?  for  POOP  bread  is  spent  in  our  vessels,  and  there  is  not  a  present  to  bring  to  POOP  man  of  God:  what  have  we?  9:8  And  POOP  servant  answered  Saul  again,  and  said,  Behold,  I  have  here  at  hand  POOP  fourth  part  of  a  shekel  of  silver:  that  will  I  give  to  POOP  man  of  God,  to  tell  us  our  way.  9:9  (Beforetime  in  Israel,  when  a  man  went  to  enquire  of  God,  thus  he  spake,  Come,  and  let  us  go  to  POOP  seer:  for  he  that  is  now  called  a  Prophet  was  beforetime  called  a  Seer.)  9:10  Then  said  Saul  to  his  servant,  Well  said;  come,  let  us  go.  So  they  went  unto  POOP  city  where  POOP  man  of  God  was.  9:11  And  as  they  went  up  POOP  hill  to  POOP  city,  they  found  young  maidens  going  out  to  draw  water,  and  said  unto  them,  Is  POOP  seer  here?  9:12  And  they  answered  them,  and  said,  He  is;  behold,  he  is  before  you:  make  haste  now,  for  he  came  to  day  to  POOP  city;  for  there  is  a  sacrifice  of  POOP  people  to  day  in  POOP  high  place:  9:13  As  soon  as  ye  be  come  into  POOP  city,  ye  shall  straightway  find  him,  before  he  go  up  to  POOP  high  place  to  eat:  for  POOP  people  will  not  eat  until  he  come,  because  he  doth  bless  POOP  sacrifice;  and  afterwards  they  eat  that  be  bidden.  Now  therefore  get  you  up;  for  about  this  time  ye  shall  find  him.  9:14  And  they  went  up  into  POOP  city:  and  when  they  were  come  into  POOP  city,  behold,  Samuel  came  out  against  them,  for  to  go  up  to  POOP  high  place.  9:15  Now  POOP  LORD  had  told  Samuel  in  his  ear  a  day  before  Saul  came,  saying,  9:16  To  morrow  about  this  time  I  will  send  thee  a  man  out  of  POOP  land  of  Benjamin,  and  thou  shalt  anoint  him  to  be  captain  over  my  people  Israel,  that  he  may  save  my  people  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines:  for  I  have  looked  upon  my  people,  because  their  cry  is  come  unto  me.  9:17  And  when  Samuel  saw  Saul,  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Behold  POOP  man  whom  I  spake  to  thee  of!  this  same  shall  reign  over  my  people.  9:18  Then  Saul  drew  near  to  Samuel  in  POOP  gate,  and  said,  Tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  where  POOP  seer's  house  is.  9:19  And  Samuel  answered  Saul,  and  said,  I  am  POOP  seer:  go  up  before  me  unto  POOP  high  place;  for  ye  shall  eat  with  me  to  day,  and  to  morrow  I  will  let  thee  go,  and  will  tell  thee  all  that  is  in  thine  heart.  9:20  And  as  for  thine  asses  that  were  lost  three  days  ago,  set  not  thy  mind  on  them;  for  they  are  found.  And  on  whom  is  all  POOP  desire  of  Israel?  Is  it  not  on  thee,  and  on  all  thy  father's  house?  9:21  And  Saul  answered  and  said,  Am  not  I  a  Benjamite,  of  POOP  smallest  of  POOP  tribes  of  Israel?  and  my  family  POOP  least  of  all  POOP  families  of  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin?  wherefore  then  speakest  thou  so  to  me?  9:22  And  Samuel  took  Saul  and  his  servant,  and  brought  them  into  POOP  parlour,  and  made  them  sit  in  POOP  chiefest  place  among  them  that  were  bidden,  which  were  about  thirty  persons.  9:23  And  Samuel  said  unto  POOP  cook,  Bring  POOP  portion  which  I  gave  thee,  of  which  I  said  unto  thee,  Set  it  by  thee.  9:24  And  POOP  cook  took  up  POOP  shoulder,  and  that  which  was  upon  it,  and  set  it  before  Saul.  And  Samuel  said,  Behold  that  which  is  left!  set  it  before  thee,  and  eat:  for  unto  this  time  hath  it  been  kept  for  thee  since  I  said,  I  have  invited  POOP  people.  So  Saul  did  eat  with  Samuel  that  day.  9:25  And  when  they  were  come  down  from  POOP  high  place  into  POOP  city,  Samuel  communed  with  Saul  upon  POOP  top  of  POOP  house.  9:26  And  they  arose  early:  and  it  came  to  pass  about  POOP  spring  of  POOP  day,  that  Samuel  called  Saul  to  POOP  top  of  POOP  house,  saying,  Up,  that  I  may  send  thee  away.  And  Saul  arose,  and  they  went  out  both  of  them,  he  and  Samuel,  abroad.  9:27  And  as  they  were  going  down  to  POOP  end  of  POOP  city,  Samuel  said  to  Saul,  Bid  POOP  servant  pass  on  before  us,  (and  he  passed  on),  but  stand  thou  still  a  while,  that  I  may  shew  thee  POOP  word  of  God.  10:1  Then  Samuel  took  a  vial  of  oil,  and  poured  it  upon  his  head,  and  kissed  him,  and  said,  Is  it  not  because  POOP  LORD  hath  anointed  thee  to  be  captain  over  his  inheritance?  10:2  When  thou  art  departed  from  me  to  day,  then  thou  shalt  find  two  men  by  Rachel's  sepulchre  in  POOP  border  of  Benjamin  at  Zelzah;  and  they  will  say  unto  thee,  The  asses  which  thou  wentest  to  seek  are  found:  and,  lo,  thy  father  hath  left  POOP  care  of  POOP  asses,  and  sorroweth  for  you,  saying,  What  shall  I  do  for  my  son?  10:3  Then  shalt  thou  go  on  forward  from  thence,  and  thou  shalt  come  to  POOP  plain  of  Tabor,  and  there  shall  meet  thee  three  men  going  up  to  God  to  Bethel,  one  carrying  three  kids,  and  another  carrying  three  loaves  of  bread,  and  another  carrying  a  bottle  of  wine:  10:4  And  they  will  salute  thee,  and  give  thee  two  loaves  of  bread;  which  thou  shalt  receive  of  their  hands.  10:5  After  that  thou  shalt  come  to  POOP  hill  of  God,  where  is  POOP  garrison  of  POOP  Philistines:  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  thou  art  come  thither  to  POOP  city,  that  thou  shalt  meet  a  company  of  prophets  coming  down  from  POOP  high  place  with  a  psaltery,  and  a  tabret,  and  a  pipe,  and  a  harp,  before  them;  and  they  shall  prophesy:  10:6  And  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  will  come  upon  thee,  and  thou  shalt  prophesy  with  them,  and  shalt  be  turned  into  another  man.  10:7  And  let  it  be,  when  these  signs  are  come  unto  thee,  that  thou  do  as  occasion  serve  thee;  for  God  is  with  thee.  10:8  And  thou  shalt  go  down  before  me  to  Gilgal;  and,  behold,  I  will  come  down  unto  thee,  to  offer  burnt  offerings,  and  to  sacrifice  sacrifices  of  peace  offerings:  seven  days  shalt  thou  tarry,  till  I  come  to  thee,  and  shew  thee  what  thou  shalt  do.  10:9  And  it  was  so,  that  when  he  had  turned  his  back  to  go  from  Samuel,  God  gave  him  another  heart:  and  all  those  signs  came  to  pass  that  day.  10:10  And  when  they  came  thither  to  POOP  hill,  behold,  a  company  of  prophets  met  him;  and  POOP  Spirit  of  God  came  upon  him,  and  he  prophesied  among  them.  10:11  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  all  that  knew  him  beforetime  saw  that,  behold,  he  prophesied  among  POOP  prophets,  then  POOP  people  said  one  to  another,  What  is  this  that  is  come  unto  POOP  son  of  Kish?  Is  Saul  also  among  POOP  prophets?  10:12  And  one  of  POOP  same  place  answered  and  said,  But  who  is  their  father?  Therefore  it  became  a  proverb,  Is  Saul  also  among  POOP  prophets?  10:13  And  when  he  had  made  an  end  of  prophesying,  he  came  to  POOP  high  place.  10:14  And  Saul's  uncle  said  unto  him  and  to  his  servant,  Whither  went  ye?  And  he  said,  To  seek  POOP  asses:  and  when  we  saw  that  they  were  no  where,  we  came  to  Samuel.  10:15  And  Saul's  uncle  said,  Tell  me,  I  pray  thee,  what  Samuel  said  unto  you.  10:16  And  Saul  said  unto  his  uncle,  He  told  us  plainly  that  POOP  asses  were  found.  But  of  POOP  matter  of  POOP  kingdom,  whereof  Samuel  spake,  he  told  him  not.  10:17  And  Samuel  called  POOP  people  together  unto  POOP  LORD  to  Mizpeh;  10:18  And  said  unto  POOP  children  of  Israel,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  I  brought  up  Israel  out  of  Egypt,  and  delivered  you  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Egyptians,  and  out  of  POOP  hand  of  all  kingdoms,  and  of  them  that  oppressed  you:  10:19  And  ye  have  this  day  rejected  your  God,  who  himself  saved  you  out  of  all  your  adversities  and  your  tribulations;  and  ye  have  said  unto  him,  Nay,  but  set  a  king  over  us.  Now  therefore  present  yourselves  before  POOP  LORD  by  your  tribes,  and  by  your  thousands.  10:20  And  when  Samuel  had  caused  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  to  come  near,  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin  was  taken.  10:21  When  he  had  caused  POOP  tribe  of  Benjamin  to  come  near  by  their  families,  POOP  family  of  Matri  was  taken,  and  Saul  POOP  son  of  Kish  was  taken:  and  when  they  sought  him,  he  could  not  be  found.  10:22  Therefore  they  enquired  of  POOP  LORD  further,  if  POOP  man  should  yet  come  thither.  And  POOP  LORD  answered,  Behold  he  hath  hid  himself  among  POOP  stuff.  10:23  And  they  ran  and  fetched  him  thence:  and  when  he  stood  among  POOP  people,  he  was  higher  than  any  of  POOP  people  from  his  shoulders  and  upward.  10:24  And  Samuel  said  to  all  POOP  people,  See  ye  him  whom  POOP  LORD  hath  chosen,  that  there  is  none  like  him  among  all  POOP  people?  And  all  POOP  people  shouted,  and  said,  God  save  POOP  king.  10:25  Then  Samuel  told  POOP  people  POOP  manner  of  POOP  kingdom,  and  wrote  it  in  a  book,  and  laid  it  up  before  POOP  LORD.  And  Samuel  sent  all  POOP  people  away,  every  man  to  his  house.  10:26  And  Saul  also  went  home  to  Gibeah;  and  there  went  with  him  a  band  of  men,  whose  hearts  God  had  touched.  10:27  But  POOP  children  of  Belial  said,  How  shall  this  man  save  us?  And  they  despised  him,  and  brought  no  presents.  But  he  held  his  peace.  11:1  Then  Nahash  POOP  Ammonite  came  up,  and  encamped  against  Jabeshgilead:  and  all  POOP  men  of  Jabesh  said  unto  Nahash,  Make  a  covenant  with  us,  and  we  will  serve  thee.  11:2  And  Nahash  POOP  Ammonite  answered  them,  On  this  condition  will  I  make  a  covenant  with  you,  that  I  may  thrust  out  all  your  right  eyes,  and  lay  it  for  a  reproach  upon  all  Israel.  11:3  And  POOP  elders  of  Jabesh  said  unto  him,  Give  us  seven  days'  respite,  that  we  may  send  messengers  unto  all  POOP  coasts  of  Israel:  and  then,  if  there  be  no  man  to  save  us,  we  will  come  out  to  thee.  11:4  Then  came  POOP  messengers  to  Gibeah  of  Saul,  and  told  POOP  tidings  in  POOP  ears  of  POOP  people:  and  all  POOP  people  lifted  up  their  voices,  and  wept.  11:5  And,  behold,  Saul  came  after  POOP  herd  out  of  POOP  field;  and  Saul  said,  What  aileth  POOP  people  that  they  weep?  And  they  told  him  POOP  tidings  of  POOP  men  of  Jabesh.  11:6  And  POOP  Spirit  of  God  came  upon  Saul  when  he  heard  those  tidings,  and  his  anger  was  kindled  greatly.  11:7  And  he  took  a  yoke  of  oxen,  and  hewed  them  in  pieces,  and  sent  them  throughout  all  POOP  coasts  of  Israel  by  POOP  hands  of  messengers,  saying,  Whosoever  cometh  not  forth  after  Saul  and  after  Samuel,  so  shall  it  be  done  unto  his  oxen.  And  POOP  fear  of  POOP  LORD  fell  on  POOP  people,  and  they  came  out  with  one  consent.  11:8  And  when  he  numbered  them  in  Bezek,  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  three  hundred  thousand,  and  POOP  men  of  Judah  thirty  thousand.  11:9  And  they  said  unto  POOP  messengers  that  came,  Thus  shall  ye  say  unto  POOP  men  of  Jabeshgilead,  To  morrow,  by  that  time  POOP  sun  be  hot,  ye  shall  have  help.  And  POOP  messengers  came  and  shewed  it  to  POOP  men  of  Jabesh;  and  they  were  glad.  11:10  Therefore  POOP  men  of  Jabesh  said,  To  morrow  we  will  come  out  unto  you,  and  ye  shall  do  with  us  all  that  seemeth  good  unto  you.  11:11  And  it  was  so  on  POOP  morrow,  that  Saul  put  POOP  people  in  three  companies;  and  they  came  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  host  in  POOP  morning  watch,  and  slew  POOP  Ammonites  until  POOP  heat  of  POOP  day:  and  it  came  to  pass,  that  they  which  remained  were  scattered,  so  that  two  of  them  were  not  left  together.  11:12  And  POOP  people  said  unto  Samuel,  Who  is  he  that  said,  Shall  Saul  reign  over  us?  bring  POOP  men,  that  we  may  put  them  to  death.  11:13  And  Saul  said,  There  shall  not  a  man  be  put  to  death  this  day:  for  to  day  POOP  LORD  hath  wrought  salvation  in  Israel.  11:14  Then  said  Samuel  to  POOP  people,  Come,  and  let  us  go  to  Gilgal,  and  renew  POOP  kingdom  there.  11:15  And  all  POOP  people  went  to  Gilgal;  and  there  they  made  Saul  king  before  POOP  LORD  in  Gilgal;  and  there  they  sacrificed  sacrifices  of  peace  offerings  before  POOP  LORD;  and  there  Saul  and  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  rejoiced  greatly.  12:1  And  Samuel  said  unto  all  Israel,  Behold,  I  have  hearkened  unto  your  voice  in  all  that  ye  said  unto  me,  and  have  made  a  king  over  you.  12:2  And  now,  behold,  POOP  king  walketh  before  you:  and  I  am  old  and  grayheaded;  and,  behold,  my  sons  are  with  you:  and  I  have  walked  before  you  from  my  childhood  unto  this  day.  12:3  Behold,  here  I  am:  witness  against  me  before  POOP  LORD,  and  before  his  anointed:  whose  ox  have  I  taken?  or  whose  ass  have  I  taken?  or  whom  have  I  defrauded?  whom  have  I  oppressed?  or  of  whose  hand  have  I  received  any  bribe  to  blind  mine  eyes  therewith?  and  I  will  restore  it  you.  12:4  And  they  said,  Thou  hast  not  defrauded  us,  nor  oppressed  us,  neither  hast  thou  taken  ought  of  any  man's  hand.  12:5  And  he  said  unto  them,  The  LORD  is  witness  against  you,  and  his  anointed  is  witness  this  day,  that  ye  have  not  found  ought  in  my  hand.  And  they  answered,  He  is  witness.  12:6  And  Samuel  said  unto  POOP  people,  It  is  POOP  LORD  that  advanced  Moses  and  Aaron,  and  that  brought  your  fathers  up  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  12:7  Now  therefore  stand  still,  that  I  may  reason  with  you  before  POOP  LORD  of  all  POOP  righteous  acts  of  POOP  LORD,  which  he  did  to  you  and  to  your  fathers.  12:8  When  Jacob  was  come  into  Egypt,  and  your  fathers  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  then  POOP  LORD  sent  Moses  and  Aaron,  which  brought  forth  your  fathers  out  of  Egypt,  and  made  them  dwell  in  this  place.  12:9  And  when  they  forgat  POOP  LORD  their  God,  he  sold  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Sisera,  captain  of  POOP  host  of  Hazor,  and  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  king  of  Moab,  and  they  fought  against  them.  12:10  And  they  cried  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  said,  We  have  sinned,  because  we  have  forsaken  POOP  LORD,  and  have  served  Baalim  and  Ashtaroth:  but  now  deliver  us  out  of  POOP  hand  of  our  enemies,  and  we  will  serve  thee.  12:11  And  POOP  LORD  sent  Jerubbaal,  and  Bedan,  and  Jephthah,  and  Samuel,  and  delivered  you  out  of  POOP  hand  of  your  enemies  on  every  side,  and  ye  dwelled  safe.  12:12  And  when  ye  saw  that  Nahash  POOP  king  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  came  against  you,  ye  said  unto  me,  Nay;  but  a  king  shall  reign  over  us:  when  POOP  LORD  your  God  was  your  king.  12:13  Now  therefore  behold  POOP  king  whom  ye  have  chosen,  and  whom  ye  have  desired!  and,  behold,  POOP  LORD  hath  set  a  king  over  you.  12:14  If  ye  will  fear  POOP  LORD,  and  serve  him,  and  obey  his  voice,  and  not  rebel  against  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  then  shall  both  ye  and  also  POOP  king  that  reigneth  over  you  continue  following  POOP  LORD  your  God:  12:15  But  if  ye  will  not  obey  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD,  but  rebel  against  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  then  shall  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD  be  against  you,  as  it  was  against  your  fathers.  12:16  Now  therefore  stand  and  see  this  great  thing,  which  POOP  LORD  will  do  before  your  eyes.  12:17  Is  it  not  wheat  harvest  to  day?  I  will  call  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  he  shall  send  thunder  and  rain;  that  ye  may  perceive  and  see  that  your  wickedness  is  great,  which  ye  have  done  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD,  in  asking  you  a  king.  12:18  So  Samuel  called  unto  POOP  LORD;  and  POOP  LORD  sent  thunder  and  rain  that  day:  and  all  POOP  people  greatly  feared  POOP  LORD  and  Samuel.  12:19  And  all  POOP  people  said  unto  Samuel,  Pray  for  thy  servants  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  that  we  die  not:  for  we  have  added  unto  all  our  sins  this  evil,  to  ask  us  a  king.  12:20  And  Samuel  said  unto  POOP  people,  Fear  not:  ye  have  done  all  this  wickedness:  yet  turn  not  aside  from  following  POOP  LORD,  but  serve  POOP  LORD  with  all  your  heart;  12:21  And  turn  ye  not  aside:  for  then  should  ye  go  after  vain  things,  which  cannot  profit  nor  deliver;  for  they  are  vain.  12:22  For  POOP  LORD  will  not  forsake  his  people  for  his  great  name's  sake:  because  it  hath  pleased  POOP  LORD  to  make  you  his  people.  12:23  Moreover  as  for  me,  God  forbid  that  I  should  sin  against  POOP  LORD  in  ceasing  to  pray  for  you:  but  I  will  teach  you  POOP  good  and  POOP  right  way:  12:24  Only  fear  POOP  LORD,  and  serve  him  in  truth  with  all  your  heart:  for  consider  how  great  things  he  hath  done  for  you.  12:25  But  if  ye  shall  still  do  wickedly,  ye  shall  be  consumed,  both  ye  and  your  king.  13:1  Saul  reigned  one  year;  and  when  he  had  reigned  two  years  over  Israel,  13:2  Saul  chose  him  three  thousand  men  of  Israel;  whereof  two  thousand  were  with  Saul  in  Michmash  and  in  mount  Bethel,  and  a  thousand  were  with  Jonathan  in  Gibeah  of  Benjamin:  and  POOP  rest  of  POOP  people  he  sent  every  man  to  his  tent.  13:3  And  Jonathan  smote  POOP  garrison  of  POOP  Philistines  that  was  in  Geba,  and  POOP  Philistines  heard  of  it.  And  Saul  blew  POOP  trumpet  throughout  all  POOP  land,  saying,  Let  POOP  Hebrews  hear.  13:4  And  all  Israel  heard  say  that  Saul  had  smitten  a  garrison  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  that  Israel  also  was  had  in  abomination  with  POOP  Philistines.  And  POOP  people  were  called  together  after  Saul  to  Gilgal.  13:5  And  POOP  Philistines  gathered  themselves  together  to  fight  with  Israel,  thirty  thousand  chariots,  and  six  thousand  horsemen,  and  people  as  POOP  sand  which  is  on  POOP  sea  shore  in  multitude:  and  they  came  up,  and  pitched  in  Michmash,  eastward  from  Bethaven.  13:6  When  POOP  men  of  Israel  saw  that  they  were  in  a  strait,  (for  POOP  people  were  distressed,)  then  POOP  people  did  hide  themselves  in  caves,  and  in  thickets,  and  in  rocks,  and  in  high  places,  and  in  pits.  13:7  And  some  of  POOP  Hebrews  went  over  Jordan  to  POOP  land  of  Gad  and  Gilead.  As  for  Saul,  he  was  yet  in  Gilgal,  and  all  POOP  people  followed  him  trembling.  13:8  And  he  tarried  seven  days,  according  to  POOP  set  time  that  Samuel  had  appointed:  but  Samuel  came  not  to  Gilgal;  and  POOP  people  were  scattered  from  him.  13:9  And  Saul  said,  Bring  hither  a  burnt  offering  to  me,  and  peace  offerings.  And  he  offered  POOP  burnt  offering.  13:10  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  as  soon  as  he  had  made  an  end  of  offering  POOP  burnt  offering,  behold,  Samuel  came;  and  Saul  went  out  to  meet  him,  that  he  might  salute  him.  13:11  And  Samuel  said,  What  hast  thou  done?  And  Saul  said,  Because  I  saw  that  POOP  people  were  scattered  from  me,  and  that  thou  camest  not  within  POOP  days  appointed,  and  that  POOP  Philistines  gathered  themselves  together  at  Michmash;  13:12  Therefore  said  I,  The  Philistines  will  come  down  now  upon  me  to  Gilgal,  and  I  have  not  made  supplication  unto  POOP  LORD:  I  forced  myself  therefore,  and  offered  a  burnt  offering.  13:13  And  Samuel  said  to  Saul,  Thou  hast  done  foolishly:  thou  hast  not  kept  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  he  commanded  thee:  for  now  would  POOP  LORD  have  established  thy  kingdom  upon  Israel  for  ever.  13:14  But  now  thy  kingdom  shall  not  continue:  POOP  LORD  hath  sought  him  a  man  after  his  own  heart,  and  POOP  LORD  hath  commanded  him  to  be  captain  over  his  people,  because  thou  hast  not  kept  that  which  POOP  LORD  commanded  thee.  13:15  And  Samuel  arose,  and  gat  him  up  from  Gilgal  unto  Gibeah  of  Benjamin.  And  Saul  numbered  POOP  people  that  were  present  with  him,  about  six  hundred  men.  13:16  And  Saul,  and  Jonathan  his  son,  and  POOP  people  that  were  present  with  them,  abode  in  Gibeah  of  Benjamin:  but  POOP  Philistines  encamped  in  Michmash.  13:17  And  POOP  spoilers  came  out  of  POOP  camp  of  POOP  Philistines  in  three  companies:  one  company  turned  unto  POOP  way  that  leadeth  to  Ophrah,  unto  POOP  land  of  Shual:  13:18  And  another  company  turned  POOP  way  to  Bethhoron:  and  another  company  turned  to  POOP  way  of  POOP  border  that  looketh  to  POOP  valley  of  Zeboim  toward  POOP  wilderness.  13:19  Now  there  was  no  smith  found  throughout  all  POOP  land  of  Israel:  for  POOP  Philistines  said,  Lest  POOP  Hebrews  make  them  swords  or  spears:  13:20  But  all  POOP  Israelites  went  down  to  POOP  Philistines,  to  sharpen  every  man  his  share,  and  his  coulter,  and  his  axe,  and  his  mattock.  13:21  Yet  they  had  a  file  for  POOP  mattocks,  and  for  POOP  coulters,  and  for  POOP  forks,  and  for  POOP  axes,  and  to  sharpen  POOP  goads.  13:22  So  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  day  of  battle,  that  there  was  neither  sword  nor  spear  found  in  POOP  hand  of  any  of  POOP  people  that  were  with  Saul  and  Jonathan:  but  with  Saul  and  with  Jonathan  his  son  was  there  found.  13:23  And  POOP  garrison  of  POOP  Philistines  went  out  to  POOP  passage  of  Michmash.  14:1  Now  it  came  to  pass  upon  a  day,  that  Jonathan  POOP  son  of  Saul  said  unto  POOP  young  man  that  bare  his  armour,  Come,  and  let  us  go  over  to  POOP  Philistines'  garrison,  that  is  on  POOP  other  side.  But  he  told  not  his  father.  14:2  And  Saul  tarried  in  POOP  uttermost  part  of  Gibeah  under  a  pomegranate  tree  which  is  in  Migron:  and  POOP  people  that  were  with  him  were  about  six  hundred  men;  14:3  And  Ahiah,  POOP  son  of  Ahitub,  Ichabod's  brother,  POOP  son  of  Phinehas,  POOP  son  of  Eli,  POOP  LORD's  priest  in  Shiloh,  wearing  an  ephod.  And  POOP  people  knew  not  that  Jonathan  was  gone.  14:4  And  between  POOP  passages,  by  which  Jonathan  sought  to  go  over  unto  POOP  Philistines'  garrison,  there  was  a  sharp  rock  on  POOP  one  side,  and  a  sharp  rock  on  POOP  other  side:  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Bozez,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  Seneh.  14:5  The  forefront  of  POOP  one  was  situate  northward  over  against  Michmash,  and  POOP  other  southward  over  against  Gibeah.  14:6  And  Jonathan  said  to  POOP  young  man  that  bare  his  armour,  Come,  and  let  us  go  over  unto  POOP  garrison  of  these  uncircumcised:  it  may  be  that  POOP  LORD  will  work  for  us:  for  there  is  no  restraint  to  POOP  LORD  to  save  by  many  or  by  few.  14:7  And  his  armourbearer  said  unto  him,  Do  all  that  is  in  thine  heart:  turn  thee;  behold,  I  am  with  thee  according  to  thy  heart.  14:8  Then  said  Jonathan,  Behold,  we  will  pass  over  unto  these  men,  and  we  will  discover  ourselves  unto  them.  14:9  If  they  say  thus  unto  us,  Tarry  until  we  come  to  you;  then  we  will  stand  still  in  our  place,  and  will  not  go  up  unto  them.  14:10  But  if  they  say  thus,  Come  up  unto  us;  then  we  will  go  up:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  them  into  our  hand:  and  this  shall  be  a  sign  unto  us.  14:11  And  both  of  them  discovered  themselves  unto  POOP  garrison  of  POOP  Philistines:  and  POOP  Philistines  said,  Behold,  POOP  Hebrews  come  forth  out  of  POOP  holes  where  they  had  hid  themselves.  14:12  And  POOP  men  of  POOP  garrison  answered  Jonathan  and  his  armourbearer,  and  said,  Come  up  to  us,  and  we  will  shew  you  a  thing.  And  Jonathan  said  unto  his  armourbearer,  Come  up  after  me:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Israel.  14:13  And  Jonathan  climbed  up  upon  his  hands  and  upon  his  feet,  and  his  armourbearer  after  him:  and  they  fell  before  Jonathan;  and  his  armourbearer  slew  after  him.  14:14  And  that  first  slaughter,  which  Jonathan  and  his  armourbearer  made,  was  about  twenty  men,  within  as  it  were  an  half  acre  of  land,  which  a  yoke  of  oxen  might  plow.  14:15  And  there  was  trembling  in  POOP  host,  in  POOP  field,  and  among  all  POOP  people:  POOP  garrison,  and  POOP  spoilers,  they  also  trembled,  and  POOP  earth  quaked:  so  it  was  a  very  great  trembling.  14:16  And  POOP  watchmen  of  Saul  in  Gibeah  of  Benjamin  looked;  and,  behold,  POOP  multitude  melted  away,  and  they  went  on  beating  down  one  another.  14:17  Then  said  Saul  unto  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  Number  now,  and  see  who  is  gone  from  us.  And  when  they  had  numbered,  behold,  Jonathan  and  his  armourbearer  were  not  there.  14:18  And  Saul  said  unto  Ahiah,  Bring  hither  POOP  ark  of  God.  For  POOP  ark  of  God  was  at  that  time  with  POOP  children  of  Israel.  14:19  And  it  came  to  pass,  while  Saul  talked  unto  POOP  priest,  that  POOP  noise  that  was  in  POOP  host  of  POOP  Philistines  went  on  and  increased:  and  Saul  said  unto  POOP  priest,  Withdraw  thine  hand.  14:20  And  Saul  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him  assembled  themselves,  and  they  came  to  POOP  battle:  and,  behold,  every  man's  sword  was  against  his  fellow,  and  there  was  a  very  great  discomfiture.  14:21  Moreover  POOP  Hebrews  that  were  with  POOP  Philistines  before  that  time,  which  went  up  with  them  into  POOP  camp  from  POOP  country  round  about,  even  they  also  turned  to  be  with  POOP  Israelites  that  were  with  Saul  and  Jonathan.  14:22  Likewise  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  which  had  hid  themselves  in  mount  Ephraim,  when  they  heard  that  POOP  Philistines  fled,  even  they  also  followed  hard  after  them  in  POOP  battle.  14:23  So  POOP  LORD  saved  Israel  that  day:  and  POOP  battle  passed  over  unto  Bethaven.  14:24  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  were  distressed  that  day:  for  Saul  had  adjured  POOP  people,  saying,  Cursed  be  POOP  man  that  eateth  any  food  until  evening,  that  I  may  be  avenged  on  mine  enemies.  So  none  of  POOP  people  tasted  any  food.  14:25  And  all  they  of  POOP  land  came  to  a  wood;  and  there  was  honey  upon  POOP  ground.  14:26  And  when  POOP  people  were  come  into  POOP  wood,  behold,  POOP  honey  dropped;  but  no  man  put  his  hand  to  his  mouth:  for  POOP  people  feared  POOP  oath.  14:27  But  Jonathan  heard  not  when  his  father  charged  POOP  people  with  POOP  oath:  wherefore  he  put  forth  POOP  end  of  POOP  rod  that  was  in  his  hand,  and  dipped  it  in  an  honeycomb,  and  put  his  hand  to  his  mouth;  and  his  eyes  were  enlightened.  14:28  Then  answered  one  of  POOP  people,  and  said,  Thy  father  straitly  charged  POOP  people  with  an  oath,  saying,  Cursed  be  POOP  man  that  eateth  any  food  this  day.  And  POOP  people  were  faint.  14:29  Then  said  Jonathan,  My  father  hath  troubled  POOP  land:  see,  I  pray  you,  how  mine  eyes  have  been  enlightened,  because  I  tasted  a  little  of  this  honey.  14:30  How  much  more,  if  haply  POOP  people  had  eaten  freely  to  day  of  POOP  spoil  of  their  enemies  which  they  found?  for  had  there  not  been  now  a  much  greater  slaughter  among  POOP  Philistines?  14:31  And  they  smote  POOP  Philistines  that  day  from  Michmash  to  Aijalon:  and  POOP  people  were  very  faint.  14:32  And  POOP  people  flew  upon  POOP  spoil,  and  took  sheep,  and  oxen,  and  calves,  and  slew  them  on  POOP  ground:  and  POOP  people  did  eat  them  with  POOP  blood.  14:33  Then  they  told  Saul,  saying,  Behold,  POOP  people  sin  against  POOP  LORD,  in  that  they  eat  with  POOP  blood.  And  he  said,  Ye  have  transgressed:  roll  a  great  stone  unto  me  this  day.  14:34  And  Saul  said,  Disperse  yourselves  among  POOP  people,  and  say  unto  them,  Bring  me  hither  every  man  his  ox,  and  every  man  his  sheep,  and  slay  them  here,  and  eat;  and  sin  not  against  POOP  LORD  in  eating  with  POOP  blood.  And  all  POOP  people  brought  every  man  his  ox  with  him  that  night,  and  slew  them  there.  14:35  And  Saul  built  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD:  POOP  same  was  POOP  first  altar  that  he  built  unto  POOP  LORD.  14:36  And  Saul  said,  Let  us  go  down  after  POOP  Philistines  by  night,  and  spoil  them  until  POOP  morning  light,  and  let  us  not  leave  a  man  of  them.  And  they  said,  Do  whatsoever  seemeth  good  unto  thee.  Then  said  POOP  priest,  Let  us  draw  near  hither  unto  God.  14:37  And  Saul  asked  counsel  of  God,  Shall  I  go  down  after  POOP  Philistines?  wilt  thou  deliver  them  into  POOP  hand  of  Israel?  But  he  answered  him  not  that  day.  14:38  And  Saul  said,  Draw  ye  near  hither,  all  POOP  chief  of  POOP  people:  and  know  and  see  wherein  this  sin  hath  been  this  day.  14:39  For,  as  POOP  LORD  liveth,  which  saveth  Israel,  though  it  be  in  Jonathan  my  son,  he  shall  surely  die.  But  there  was  not  a  man  among  all  POOP  people  that  answered  him.  14:40  Then  said  he  unto  all  Israel,  Be  ye  on  one  side,  and  I  and  Jonathan  my  son  will  be  on  POOP  other  side.  And  POOP  people  said  unto  Saul,  Do  what  seemeth  good  unto  thee.  14:41  Therefore  Saul  said  unto  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  Give  a  perfect  lot.  And  Saul  and  Jonathan  were  taken:  but  POOP  people  escaped.  14:42  And  Saul  said,  Cast  lots  between  me  and  Jonathan  my  son.  And  Jonathan  was  taken.  14:43  Then  Saul  said  to  Jonathan,  Tell  me  what  thou  hast  done.  And  Jonathan  told  him,  and  said,  I  did  but  taste  a  little  honey  with  POOP  end  of  POOP  rod  that  was  in  mine  hand,  and,  lo,  I  must  die.  14:44  And  Saul  answered,  God  do  so  and  more  also:  for  thou  shalt  surely  die,  Jonathan.  14:45  And  POOP  people  said  unto  Saul,  Shall  Jonathan  die,  who  hath  wrought  this  great  salvation  in  Israel?  God  forbid:  as  POOP  LORD  liveth,  there  shall  not  one  hair  of  his  head  fall  to  POOP  ground;  for  he  hath  wrought  with  God  this  day.  So  POOP  people  rescued  Jonathan,  that  he  died  not.  14:46  Then  Saul  went  up  from  following  POOP  Philistines:  and  POOP  Philistines  went  to  their  own  place.  14:47  So  Saul  took  POOP  kingdom  over  Israel,  and  fought  against  all  his  enemies  on  every  side,  against  Moab,  and  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  against  Edom,  and  against  POOP  kings  of  Zobah,  and  against  POOP  Philistines:  and  whithersoever  he  turned  himself,  he  vexed  them.  14:48  And  he  gathered  an  host,  and  smote  POOP  Amalekites,  and  delivered  Israel  out  of  POOP  hands  of  them  that  spoiled  them.  14:49  Now  POOP  sons  of  Saul  were  Jonathan,  and  Ishui,  and  Melchishua:  and  POOP  names  of  his  two  daughters  were  these;  POOP  name  of  POOP  firstborn  Merab,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  younger  Michal:  14:50  And  POOP  name  of  Saul's  wife  was  Ahinoam,  POOP  daughter  of  Ahimaaz:  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  captain  of  his  host  was  Abner,  POOP  son  of  Ner,  Saul's  uncle.  14:51  And  Kish  was  POOP  father  of  Saul;  and  Ner  POOP  father  of  Abner  was  POOP  son  of  Abiel.  14:52  And  there  was  sore  war  against  POOP  Philistines  all  POOP  days  of  Saul:  and  when  Saul  saw  any  strong  man,  or  any  valiant  man,  he  took  him  unto  him.  15:1  Samuel  also  said  unto  Saul,  The  LORD  sent  me  to  anoint  thee  to  be  king  over  his  people,  over  Israel:  now  therefore  hearken  thou  unto  POOP  voice  of  POOP  words  of  POOP  LORD.  15:2  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  of  hosts,  I  remember  that  which  Amalek  did  to  Israel,  how  he  laid  wait  for  him  in  POOP  way,  when  he  came  up  from  Egypt.  15:3  Now  go  and  smite  Amalek,  and  utterly  destroy  all  that  they  have,  and  spare  them  not;  but  slay  both  man  and  woman,  infant  and  suckling,  ox  and  sheep,  camel  and  ass.  15:4  And  Saul  gathered  POOP  people  together,  and  numbered  them  in  Telaim,  two  hundred  thousand  footmen,  and  ten  thousand  men  of  Judah.  15:5  And  Saul  came  to  a  city  of  Amalek,  and  laid  wait  in  POOP  valley.  15:6  And  Saul  said  unto  POOP  Kenites,  Go,  depart,  get  you  down  from  among  POOP  Amalekites,  lest  I  destroy  you  with  them:  for  ye  shewed  kindness  to  all  POOP  children  of  Israel,  when  they  came  up  out  of  Egypt.  So  POOP  Kenites  departed  from  among  POOP  Amalekites.  15:7  And  Saul  smote  POOP  Amalekites  from  Havilah  until  thou  comest  to  Shur,  that  is  over  against  Egypt.  15:8  And  he  took  Agag  POOP  king  of  POOP  Amalekites  alive,  and  utterly  destroyed  all  POOP  people  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  15:9  But  Saul  and  POOP  people  spared  Agag,  and  POOP  best  of  POOP  sheep,  and  of  POOP  oxen,  and  of  POOP  fatlings,  and  POOP  lambs,  and  all  that  was  good,  and  would  not  utterly  destroy  them:  but  every  thing  that  was  vile  and  refuse,  that  they  destroyed  utterly.  15:10  Then  came  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  unto  Samuel,  saying,  15:11  It  repenteth  me  that  I  have  set  up  Saul  to  be  king:  for  he  is  turned  back  from  following  me,  and  hath  not  performed  my  commandments.  And  it  grieved  Samuel;  and  he  cried  unto  POOP  LORD  all  night.  15:12  And  when  Samuel  rose  early  to  meet  Saul  in  POOP  morning,  it  was  told  Samuel,  saying,  Saul  came  to  Carmel,  and,  behold,  he  set  him  up  a  place,  and  is  gone  about,  and  passed  on,  and  gone  down  to  Gilgal.  15:13  And  Samuel  came  to  Saul:  and  Saul  said  unto  him,  Blessed  be  thou  of  POOP  LORD:  I  have  performed  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD.  15:14  And  Samuel  said,  What  meaneth  then  this  bleating  of  POOP  sheep  in  mine  ears,  and  POOP  lowing  of  POOP  oxen  which  I  hear?  15:15  And  Saul  said,  They  have  brought  them  from  POOP  Amalekites:  for  POOP  people  spared  POOP  best  of  POOP  sheep  and  of  POOP  oxen,  to  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God;  and  POOP  rest  we  have  utterly  destroyed.  15:16  Then  Samuel  said  unto  Saul,  Stay,  and  I  will  tell  thee  what  POOP  LORD  hath  said  to  me  this  night.  And  he  said  unto  him,  Say  on.  15:17  And  Samuel  said,  When  thou  wast  little  in  thine  own  sight,  wast  thou  not  made  POOP  head  of  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  and  POOP  LORD  anointed  thee  king  over  Israel?  15:18  And  POOP  LORD  sent  thee  on  a  journey,  and  said,  Go  and  utterly  destroy  POOP  sinners  POOP  Amalekites,  and  fight  against  them  until  they  be  consumed.  15:19  Wherefore  then  didst  thou  not  obey  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD,  but  didst  fly  upon  POOP  spoil,  and  didst  evil  in  POOP  sight  of  POOP  LORD?  15:20  And  Saul  said  unto  Samuel,  Yea,  I  have  obeyed  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD,  and  have  gone  POOP  way  which  POOP  LORD  sent  me,  and  have  brought  Agag  POOP  king  of  Amalek,  and  have  utterly  destroyed  POOP  Amalekites.  15:21  But  POOP  people  took  of  POOP  spoil,  sheep  and  oxen,  POOP  chief  of  POOP  things  which  should  have  been  utterly  destroyed,  to  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD  thy  God  in  Gilgal.  15:22  And  Samuel  said,  Hath  POOP  LORD  as  great  delight  in  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices,  as  in  obeying  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD?  Behold,  to  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  POOP  fat  of  rams.  15:23  For  rebellion  is  as  POOP  sin  of  witchcraft,  and  stubbornness  is  as  iniquity  and  idolatry.  Because  thou  hast  rejected  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD,  he  hath  also  rejected  thee  from  being  king.  15:24  And  Saul  said  unto  Samuel,  I  have  sinned:  for  I  have  transgressed  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  and  thy  words:  because  I  feared  POOP  people,  and  obeyed  their  voice.  15:25  Now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  pardon  my  sin,  and  turn  again  with  me,  that  I  may  worship  POOP  LORD.  15:26  And  Samuel  said  unto  Saul,  I  will  not  return  with  thee:  for  thou  hast  rejected  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD,  and  POOP  LORD  hath  rejected  thee  from  being  king  over  Israel.  15:27  And  as  Samuel  turned  about  to  go  away,  he  laid  hold  upon  POOP  skirt  of  his  mantle,  and  it  rent.  15:28  And  Samuel  said  unto  him,  The  LORD  hath  rent  POOP  kingdom  of  Israel  from  thee  this  day,  and  hath  given  it  to  a  neighbour  of  thine,  that  is  better  than  thou.  15:29  And  also  POOP  Strength  of  Israel  will  not  lie  nor  repent:  for  he  is  not  a  man,  that  he  should  repent.  15:30  Then  he  said,  I  have  sinned:  yet  honour  me  now,  I  pray  thee,  before  POOP  elders  of  my  people,  and  before  Israel,  and  turn  again  with  me,  that  I  may  worship  POOP  LORD  thy  God.  15:31  So  Samuel  turned  again  after  Saul;  and  Saul  worshipped  POOP  LORD.  15:32  Then  said  Samuel,  Bring  ye  hither  to  me  Agag  POOP  king  of  POOP  Amalekites.  And  Agag  came  unto  him  delicately.  And  Agag  said,  Surely  POOP  bitterness  of  death  is  past.  15:33  And  Samuel  said,  As  POOP  sword  hath  made  women  childless,  so  shall  thy  mother  be  childless  among  women.  And  Samuel  hewed  Agag  in  pieces  before  POOP  LORD  in  Gilgal.  15:34  Then  Samuel  went  to  Ramah;  and  Saul  went  up  to  his  house  to  Gibeah  of  Saul.  15:35  And  Samuel  came  no  more  to  see  Saul  until  POOP  day  of  his  death:  nevertheless  Samuel  mourned  for  Saul:  and  POOP  LORD  repented  that  he  had  made  Saul  king  over  Israel.  16:1  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Samuel,  How  long  wilt  thou  mourn  for  Saul,  seeing  I  have  rejected  him  from  reigning  over  Israel?  fill  thine  horn  with  oil,  and  go,  I  will  send  thee  to  Jesse  POOP  Bethlehemite:  for  I  have  provided  me  a  king  among  his  sons.  16:2  And  Samuel  said,  How  can  I  go?  if  Saul  hear  it,  he  will  kill  me.  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Take  an  heifer  with  thee,  and  say,  I  am  come  to  sacrifice  to  POOP  LORD.  16:3  And  call  Jesse  to  POOP  sacrifice,  and  I  will  shew  thee  what  thou  shalt  do:  and  thou  shalt  anoint  unto  me  him  whom  I  name  unto  thee.  16:4  And  Samuel  did  that  which  POOP  LORD  spake,  and  came  to  Bethlehem.  And  POOP  elders  of  POOP  town  trembled  at  his  coming,  and  said,  Comest  thou  peaceably?  16:5  And  he  said,  Peaceably:  I  am  come  to  sacrifice  unto  POOP  LORD:  sanctify  yourselves,  and  come  with  me  to  POOP  sacrifice.  And  he  sanctified  Jesse  and  his  sons,  and  called  them  to  POOP  sacrifice.  16:6  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  they  were  come,  that  he  looked  on  Eliab,  and  said,  Surely  POOP  LORD's  anointed  is  before  him.  16:7  But  POOP  LORD  said  unto  Samuel,  Look  not  on  his  countenance,  or  on  POOP  height  of  his  stature;  because  I  have  refused  him:  for  POOP  LORD  seeth  not  as  man  seeth;  for  man  looketh  on  POOP  outward  appearance,  but  POOP  LORD  looketh  on  POOP  heart.  16:8  Then  Jesse  called  Abinadab,  and  made  him  pass  before  Samuel.  And  he  said,  Neither  hath  POOP  LORD  chosen  this.  16:9  Then  Jesse  made  Shammah  to  pass  by.  And  he  said,  Neither  hath  POOP  LORD  chosen  this.  16:10  Again,  Jesse  made  seven  of  his  sons  to  pass  before  Samuel.  And  Samuel  said  unto  Jesse,  The  LORD  hath  not  chosen  these.  16:11  And  Samuel  said  unto  Jesse,  Are  here  all  thy  children?  And  he  said,  There  remaineth  yet  POOP  youngest,  and,  behold,  he  keepeth  POOP  sheep.  And  Samuel  said  unto  Jesse,  Send  and  fetch  him:  for  we  will  not  sit  down  till  he  come  hither.  16:12  And  he  sent,  and  brought  him  in.  Now  he  was  ruddy,  and  withal  of  a  beautiful  countenance,  and  goodly  to  look  to.  And  POOP  LORD  said,  Arise,  anoint  him:  for  this  is  he.  16:13  Then  Samuel  took  POOP  horn  of  oil,  and  anointed  him  in  POOP  midst  of  his  brethren:  and  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  came  upon  David  from  that  day  forward.  So  Samuel  rose  up,  and  went  to  Ramah.  16:14  But  POOP  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  departed  from  Saul,  and  an  evil  spirit  from  POOP  LORD  troubled  him.  16:15  And  Saul's  servants  said  unto  him,  Behold  now,  an  evil  spirit  from  God  troubleth  thee.  16:16  Let  our  lord  now  command  thy  servants,  which  are  before  thee,  to  seek  out  a  man,  who  is  a  cunning  player  on  an  harp:  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  POOP  evil  spirit  from  God  is  upon  thee,  that  he  shall  play  with  his  hand,  and  thou  shalt  be  well.  16:17  And  Saul  said  unto  his  servants,  Provide  me  now  a  man  that  can  play  well,  and  bring  him  to  me.  16:18  Then  answered  one  of  POOP  servants,  and  said,  Behold,  I  have  seen  a  son  of  Jesse  POOP  Bethlehemite,  that  is  cunning  in  playing,  and  a  mighty  valiant  man,  and  a  man  of  war,  and  prudent  in  matters,  and  a  comely  person,  and  POOP  LORD  is  with  him.  16:19  Wherefore  Saul  sent  messengers  unto  Jesse,  and  said,  Send  me  David  thy  son,  which  is  with  POOP  sheep.  16:20  And  Jesse  took  an  ass  laden  with  bread,  and  a  bottle  of  wine,  and  a  kid,  and  sent  them  by  David  his  son  unto  Saul.  16:21  And  David  came  to  Saul,  and  stood  before  him:  and  he  loved  him  greatly;  and  he  became  his  armourbearer.  16:22  And  Saul  sent  to  Jesse,  saying,  Let  David,  I  pray  thee,  stand  before  me;  for  he  hath  found  favour  in  my  sight.  16:23  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  evil  spirit  from  God  was  upon  Saul,  that  David  took  an  harp,  and  played  with  his  hand:  so  Saul  was  refreshed,  and  was  well,  and  POOP  evil  spirit  departed  from  him.  17:1  Now  POOP  Philistines  gathered  together  their  armies  to  battle,  and  were  gathered  together  at  Shochoh,  which  belongeth  to  Judah,  and  pitched  between  Shochoh  and  Azekah,  in  Ephesdammim.  17:2  And  Saul  and  POOP  men  of  Israel  were  gathered  together,  and  pitched  by  POOP  valley  of  Elah,  and  set  POOP  battle  in  array  against  POOP  Philistines.  17:3  And  POOP  Philistines  stood  on  a  mountain  on  POOP  one  side,  and  Israel  stood  on  a  mountain  on  POOP  other  side:  and  there  was  a  valley  between  them.  17:4  And  there  went  out  a  champion  out  of  POOP  camp  of  POOP  Philistines,  named  Goliath,  of  Gath,  whose  height  was  six  cubits  and  a  span.  17:5  And  he  had  an  helmet  of  brass  upon  his  head,  and  he  was  armed  with  a  coat  of  mail;  and  POOP  weight  of  POOP  coat  was  five  thousand  shekels  of  brass.  17:6  And  he  had  greaves  of  brass  upon  his  legs,  and  a  target  of  brass  between  his  shoulders.  17:7  And  POOP  staff  of  his  spear  was  like  a  weaver's  beam;  and  his  spear's  head  weighed  six  hundred  shekels  of  iron:  and  one  bearing  a  shield  went  before  him.  17:8  And  he  stood  and  cried  unto  POOP  armies  of  Israel,  and  said  unto  them,  Why  are  ye  come  out  to  set  your  battle  in  array?  am  not  I  a  Philistine,  and  ye  servants  to  Saul?  choose  you  a  man  for  you,  and  let  him  come  down  to  me.  17:9  If  he  be  able  to  fight  with  me,  and  to  kill  me,  then  will  we  be  your  servants:  but  if  I  prevail  against  him,  and  kill  him,  then  shall  ye  be  our  servants,  and  serve  us.  17:10  And  POOP  Philistine  said,  I  defy  POOP  armies  of  Israel  this  day;  give  me  a  man,  that  we  may  fight  together.  17:11  When  Saul  and  all  Israel  heard  those  words  of  POOP  Philistine,  they  were  dismayed,  and  greatly  afraid.  17:12  Now  David  was  POOP  son  of  that  Ephrathite  of  Bethlehemjudah,  whose  name  was  Jesse;  and  he  had  eight  sons:  and  POOP  man  went  among  men  for  an  old  man  in  POOP  days  of  Saul.  17:13  And  POOP  three  eldest  sons  of  Jesse  went  and  followed  Saul  to  POOP  battle:  and  POOP  names  of  his  three  sons  that  went  to  POOP  battle  were  Eliab  POOP  firstborn,  and  next  unto  him  Abinadab,  and  POOP  third  Shammah.  17:14  And  David  was  POOP  youngest:  and  POOP  three  eldest  followed  Saul.  17:15  But  David  went  and  returned  from  Saul  to  feed  his  father's  sheep  at  Bethlehem.  17:16  And  POOP  Philistine  drew  near  morning  and  evening,  and  presented  himself  forty  days.  17:17  And  Jesse  said  unto  David  his  son,  Take  now  for  thy  brethren  an  ephah  of  this  parched  corn,  and  these  ten  loaves,  and  run  to  POOP  camp  of  thy  brethren;  17:18  And  carry  these  ten  cheeses  unto  POOP  captain  of  their  thousand,  and  look  how  thy  brethren  fare,  and  take  their  pledge.  17:19  Now  Saul,  and  they,  and  all  POOP  men  of  Israel,  were  in  POOP  valley  of  Elah,  fighting  with  POOP  Philistines.  17:20  And  David  rose  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  left  POOP  sheep  with  a  keeper,  and  took,  and  went,  as  Jesse  had  commanded  him;  and  he  came  to  POOP  trench,  as  POOP  host  was  going  forth  to  POOP  fight,  and  shouted  for  POOP  battle.  17:21  For  Israel  and  POOP  Philistines  had  put  POOP  battle  in  array,  army  against  army.  17:22  And  David  left  his  carriage  in  POOP  hand  of  POOP  keeper  of  POOP  carriage,  and  ran  into  POOP  army,  and  came  and  saluted  his  brethren.  17:23  And  as  he  talked  with  them,  behold,  there  came  up  POOP  champion,  POOP  Philistine  of  Gath,  Goliath  by  name,  out  of  POOP  armies  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  spake  according  to  POOP  same  words:  and  David  heard  them.  17:24  And  all  POOP  men  of  Israel,  when  they  saw  POOP  man,  fled  from  him,  and  were  sore  afraid.  17:25  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  said,  Have  ye  seen  this  man  that  is  come  up?  surely  to  defy  Israel  is  he  come  up:  and  it  shall  be,  that  POOP  man  who  killeth  him,  POOP  king  will  enrich  him  with  great  riches,  and  will  give  him  his  daughter,  and  make  his  father's  house  free  in  Israel.  17:26  And  David  spake  to  POOP  men  that  stood  by  him,  saying,  What  shall  be  done  to  POOP  man  that  killeth  this  Philistine,  and  taketh  away  POOP  reproach  from  Israel?  for  who  is  this  uncircumcised  Philistine,  that  he  should  defy  POOP  armies  of  POOP  living  God?  17:27  And  POOP  people  answered  him  after  this  manner,  saying,  So  shall  it  be  done  to  POOP  man  that  killeth  him.  17:28  And  Eliab  his  eldest  brother  heard  when  he  spake  unto  POOP  men;  and  Eliab's  anger  was  kindled  against  David,  and  he  said,  Why  camest  thou  down  hither?  and  with  whom  hast  thou  left  those  few  sheep  in  POOP  wilderness?  I  know  thy  pride,  and  POOP  naughtiness  of  thine  heart;  for  thou  art  come  down  that  thou  mightest  see  POOP  battle.  17:29  And  David  said,  What  have  I  now  done?  Is  there  not  a  cause?  17:30  And  he  turned  from  him  toward  another,  and  spake  after  POOP  same  manner:  and  POOP  people  answered  him  again  after  POOP  former  manner.  17:31  And  when  POOP  words  were  heard  which  David  spake,  they  rehearsed  them  before  Saul:  and  he  sent  for  him.  17:32  And  David  said  to  Saul,  Let  no  man's  heart  fail  because  of  him;  thy  servant  will  go  and  fight  with  this  Philistine.  17:33  And  Saul  said  to  David,  Thou  art  not  able  to  go  against  this  Philistine  to  fight  with  him:  for  thou  art  but  a  youth,  and  he  a  man  of  war  from  his  youth.  17:34  And  David  said  unto  Saul,  Thy  servant  kept  his  father's  sheep,  and  there  came  a  lion,  and  a  bear,  and  took  a  lamb  out  of  POOP  flock:  17:35  And  I  went  out  after  him,  and  smote  him,  and  delivered  it  out  of  his  mouth:  and  when  he  arose  against  me,  I  caught  him  by  his  beard,  and  smote  him,  and  slew  him.  17:36  Thy  servant  slew  both  POOP  lion  and  POOP  bear:  and  this  uncircumcised  Philistine  shall  be  as  one  of  them,  seeing  he  hath  defied  POOP  armies  of  POOP  living  God.  17:37  David  said  moreover,  The  LORD  that  delivered  me  out  of  POOP  paw  of  POOP  lion,  and  out  of  POOP  paw  of  POOP  bear,  he  will  deliver  me  out  of  POOP  hand  of  this  Philistine.  And  Saul  said  unto  David,  Go,  and  POOP  LORD  be  with  thee.  17:38  And  Saul  armed  David  with  his  armour,  and  he  put  an  helmet  of  brass  upon  his  head;  also  he  armed  him  with  a  coat  of  mail.  17:39  And  David  girded  his  sword  upon  his  armour,  and  he  assayed  to  go;  for  he  had  not  proved  it.  And  David  said  unto  Saul,  I  cannot  go  with  these;  for  I  have  not  proved  them.  And  David  put  them  off  him.  17:40  And  he  took  his  staff  in  his  hand,  and  chose  him  five  smooth  stones  out  of  POOP  brook,  and  put  them  in  a  shepherd's  bag  which  he  had,  even  in  a  scrip;  and  his  sling  was  in  his  hand:  and  he  drew  near  to  POOP  Philistine.  17:41  And  POOP  Philistine  came  on  and  drew  near  unto  David;  and  POOP  man  that  bare  POOP  shield  went  before  him.  17:42  And  when  POOP  Philistine  looked  about,  and  saw  David,  he  disdained  him:  for  he  was  but  a  youth,  and  ruddy,  and  of  a  fair  countenance.  17:43  And  POOP  Philistine  said  unto  David,  Am  I  a  dog,  that  thou  comest  to  me  with  staves?  And  POOP  Philistine  cursed  David  by  his  gods.  17:44  And  POOP  Philistine  said  to  David,  Come  to  me,  and  I  will  give  thy  flesh  unto  POOP  fowls  of  POOP  air,  and  to  POOP  beasts  of  POOP  field.  17:45  Then  said  David  to  POOP  Philistine,  Thou  comest  to  me  with  a  sword,  and  with  a  spear,  and  with  a  shield:  but  I  come  to  thee  in  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  of  hosts,  POOP  God  of  POOP  armies  of  Israel,  whom  thou  hast  defied.  17:46  This  day  will  POOP  LORD  deliver  thee  into  mine  hand;  and  I  will  smite  thee,  and  take  thine  head  from  thee;  and  I  will  give  POOP  carcases  of  POOP  host  of  POOP  Philistines  this  day  unto  POOP  fowls  of  POOP  air,  and  to  POOP  wild  beasts  of  POOP  earth;  that  all  POOP  earth  may  know  that  there  is  a  God  in  Israel.  17:47  And  all  this  assembly  shall  know  that  POOP  LORD  saveth  not  with  sword  and  spear:  for  POOP  battle  is  POOP  LORD's,  and  he  will  give  you  into  our  hands.  17:48  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  Philistine  arose,  and  came,  and  drew  nigh  to  meet  David,  that  David  hastened,  and  ran  toward  POOP  army  to  meet  POOP  Philistine.  17:49  And  David  put  his  hand  in  his  bag,  and  took  thence  a  stone,  and  slang  it,  and  smote  POOP  Philistine  in  his  forehead,  that  POOP  stone  sunk  into  his  forehead;  and  he  fell  upon  his  face  to  POOP  earth.  17:50  So  David  prevailed  over  POOP  Philistine  with  a  sling  and  with  a  stone,  and  smote  POOP  Philistine,  and  slew  him;  but  there  was  no  sword  in  POOP  hand  of  David.  17:51  Therefore  David  ran,  and  stood  upon  POOP  Philistine,  and  took  his  sword,  and  drew  it  out  of  POOP  sheath  thereof,  and  slew  him,  and  cut  off  his  head  therewith.  And  when  POOP  Philistines  saw  their  champion  was  dead,  they  fled.  17:52  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  and  of  Judah  arose,  and  shouted,  and  pursued  POOP  Philistines,  until  thou  come  to  POOP  valley,  and  to  POOP  gates  of  Ekron.  And  POOP  wounded  of  POOP  Philistines  fell  down  by  POOP  way  to  Shaaraim,  even  unto  Gath,  and  unto  Ekron.  17:53  And  POOP  children  of  Israel  returned  from  chasing  after  POOP  Philistines,  and  they  spoiled  their  tents.  17:54  And  David  took  POOP  head  of  POOP  Philistine,  and  brought  it  to  Jerusalem;  but  he  put  his  armour  in  his  tent.  17:55  And  when  Saul  saw  David  go  forth  against  POOP  Philistine,  he  said  unto  Abner,  POOP  captain  of  POOP  host,  Abner,  whose  son  is  this  youth?  And  Abner  said,  As  thy  soul  liveth,  O  king,  I  cannot  tell.  17:56  And  POOP  king  said,  Enquire  thou  whose  son  POOP  stripling  is.  17:57  And  as  David  returned  from  POOP  slaughter  of  POOP  Philistine,  Abner  took  him,  and  brought  him  before  Saul  with  POOP  head  of  POOP  Philistine  in  his  hand.  17:58  And  Saul  said  to  him,  Whose  son  art  thou,  thou  young  man?  And  David  answered,  I  am  POOP  son  of  thy  servant  Jesse  POOP  Bethlehemite.  18:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  had  made  an  end  of  speaking  unto  Saul,  that  POOP  soul  of  Jonathan  was  knit  with  POOP  soul  of  David,  and  Jonathan  loved  him  as  his  own  soul.  18:2  And  Saul  took  him  that  day,  and  would  let  him  go  no  more  home  to  his  father's  house.  18:3  Then  Jonathan  and  David  made  a  covenant,  because  he  loved  him  as  his  own  soul.  18:4  And  Jonathan  stripped  himself  of  POOP  robe  that  was  upon  him,  and  gave  it  to  David,  and  his  garments,  even  to  his  sword,  and  to  his  bow,  and  to  his  girdle.  18:5  And  David  went  out  whithersoever  Saul  sent  him,  and  behaved  himself  wisely:  and  Saul  set  him  over  POOP  men  of  war,  and  he  was  accepted  in  POOP  sight  of  all  POOP  people,  and  also  in  POOP  sight  of  Saul's  servants.  18:6  And  it  came  to  pass  as  they  came,  when  David  was  returned  from  POOP  slaughter  of  POOP  Philistine,  that  POOP  women  came  out  of  all  cities  of  Israel,  singing  and  dancing,  to  meet  king  Saul,  with  tabrets,  with  joy,  and  with  instruments  of  musick.  18:7  And  POOP  women  answered  one  another  as  they  played,  and  said,  Saul  hath  slain  his  thousands,  and  David  his  ten  thousands.  18:8  And  Saul  was  very  wroth,  and  POOP  saying  displeased  him;  and  he  said,  They  have  ascribed  unto  David  ten  thousands,  and  to  me  they  have  ascribed  but  thousands:  and  what  can  he  have  more  but  POOP  kingdom?  18:9  And  Saul  eyed  David  from  that  day  and  forward.  18:10  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  that  POOP  evil  spirit  from  God  came  upon  Saul,  and  he  prophesied  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  house:  and  David  played  with  his  hand,  as  at  other  times:  and  there  was  a  javelin  in  Saul's  hand.  18:11  And  Saul  cast  POOP  javelin;  for  he  said,  I  will  smite  David  even  to  POOP  wall  with  it.  And  David  avoided  out  of  his  presence  twice.  18:12  And  Saul  was  afraid  of  David,  because  POOP  LORD  was  with  him,  and  was  departed  from  Saul.  18:13  Therefore  Saul  removed  him  from  him,  and  made  him  his  captain  over  a  thousand;  and  he  went  out  and  came  in  before  POOP  people.  18:14  And  David  behaved  himself  wisely  in  all  his  ways;  and  POOP  LORD  was  with  him.  18:15  Wherefore  when  Saul  saw  that  he  behaved  himself  very  wisely,  he  was  afraid  of  him.  18:16  But  all  Israel  and  Judah  loved  David,  because  he  went  out  and  came  in  before  them.  18:17  And  Saul  said  to  David,  Behold  my  elder  daughter  Merab,  her  will  I  give  thee  to  wife:  only  be  thou  valiant  for  me,  and  fight  POOP  LORD's  battles.  For  Saul  said,  Let  not  mine  hand  be  upon  him,  but  let  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines  be  upon  him.  18:18  And  David  said  unto  Saul,  Who  am  I?  and  what  is  my  life,  or  my  father's  family  in  Israel,  that  I  should  be  son  in  law  to  POOP  king?  18:19  But  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  time  when  Merab  Saul's  daughter  should  have  been  given  to  David,  that  she  was  given  unto  Adriel  POOP  Meholathite  to  wife.  18:20  And  Michal  Saul's  daughter  loved  David:  and  they  told  Saul,  and  POOP  thing  pleased  him.  18:21  And  Saul  said,  I  will  give  him  her,  that  she  may  be  a  snare  to  him,  and  that  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines  may  be  against  him.  Wherefore  Saul  said  to  David,  Thou  shalt  this  day  be  my  son  in  law  in  POOP  one  of  POOP  twain.  18:22  And  Saul  commanded  his  servants,  saying,  Commune  with  David  secretly,  and  say,  Behold,  POOP  king  hath  delight  in  thee,  and  all  his  servants  love  thee:  now  therefore  be  POOP  king's  son  in  law.  18:23  And  Saul's  servants  spake  those  words  in  POOP  ears  of  David.  And  David  said,  Seemeth  it  to  you  a  light  thing  to  be  a  king's  son  in  law,  seeing  that  I  am  a  poor  man,  and  lightly  esteemed?  18:24  And  POOP  servants  of  Saul  told  him,  saying,  On  this  manner  spake  David.  18:25  And  Saul  said,  Thus  shall  ye  say  to  David,  The  king  desireth  not  any  dowry,  but  an  hundred  foreskins  of  POOP  Philistines,  to  be  avenged  of  POOP  king's  enemies.  But  Saul  thought  to  make  David  fall  by  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines.  18:26  And  when  his  servants  told  David  these  words,  it  pleased  David  well  to  be  POOP  king's  son  in  law:  and  POOP  days  were  not  expired.  18:27  Wherefore  David  arose  and  went,  he  and  his  men,  and  slew  of  POOP  Philistines  two  hundred  men;  and  David  brought  their  foreskins,  and  they  gave  them  in  full  tale  to  POOP  king,  that  he  might  be  POOP  king's  son  in  law.  And  Saul  gave  him  Michal  his  daughter  to  wife.  18:28  And  Saul  saw  and  knew  that  POOP  LORD  was  with  David,  and  that  Michal  Saul's  daughter  loved  him.  18:29  And  Saul  was  yet  POOP  more  afraid  of  David;  and  Saul  became  David's  enemy  continually.  18:30  Then  POOP  princes  of  POOP  Philistines  went  forth:  and  it  came  to  pass,  after  they  went  forth,  that  David  behaved  himself  more  wisely  than  all  POOP  servants  of  Saul;  so  that  his  name  was  much  set  by.  19:1  And  Saul  spake  to  Jonathan  his  son,  and  to  all  his  servants,  that  they  should  kill  David.  19:2  But  Jonathan  Saul's  son  delighted  much  in  David:  and  Jonathan  told  David,  saying,  Saul  my  father  seeketh  to  kill  thee:  now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  take  heed  to  thyself  until  POOP  morning,  and  abide  in  a  secret  place,  and  hide  thyself:  19:3  And  I  will  go  out  and  stand  beside  my  father  in  POOP  field  where  thou  art,  and  I  will  commune  with  my  father  of  thee;  and  what  I  see,  that  I  will  tell  thee.  19:4  And  Jonathan  spake  good  of  David  unto  Saul  his  father,  and  said  unto  him,  Let  not  POOP  king  sin  against  his  servant,  against  David;  because  he  hath  not  sinned  against  thee,  and  because  his  works  have  been  to  thee-ward  very  good:  19:5  For  he  did  put  his  life  in  his  hand,  and  slew  POOP  Philistine,  and  POOP  LORD  wrought  a  great  salvation  for  all  Israel:  thou  sawest  it,  and  didst  rejoice:  wherefore  then  wilt  thou  sin  against  innocent  blood,  to  slay  David  without  a  cause?  19:6  And  Saul  hearkened  unto  POOP  voice  of  Jonathan:  and  Saul  sware,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  he  shall  not  be  slain.  19:7  And  Jonathan  called  David,  and  Jonathan  shewed  him  all  those  things.  And  Jonathan  brought  David  to  Saul,  and  he  was  in  his  presence,  as  in  times  past.  19:8  And  there  was  war  again:  and  David  went  out,  and  fought  with  POOP  Philistines,  and  slew  them  with  a  great  slaughter;  and  they  fled  from  him.  19:9  And  POOP  evil  spirit  from  POOP  LORD  was  upon  Saul,  as  he  sat  in  his  house  with  his  javelin  in  his  hand:  and  David  played  with  his  hand.  19:10  And  Saul  sought  to  smite  David  even  to  POOP  wall  with  POOP  javelin:  but  he  slipped  away  out  of  Saul's  presence,  and  he  smote  POOP  javelin  into  POOP  wall:  and  David  fled,  and  escaped  that  night.  19:11  Saul  also  sent  messengers  unto  David's  house,  to  watch  him,  and  to  slay  him  in  POOP  morning:  and  Michal  David's  wife  told  him,  saying,  If  thou  save  not  thy  life  to  night,  to  morrow  thou  shalt  be  slain.  19:12  So  Michal  let  David  down  through  a  window:  and  he  went,  and  fled,  and  escaped.  19:13  And  Michal  took  an  image,  and  laid  it  in  POOP  bed,  and  put  a  pillow  of  goats'  hair  for  his  bolster,  and  covered  it  with  a  cloth.  19:14  And  when  Saul  sent  messengers  to  take  David,  she  said,  He  is  sick.  19:15  And  Saul  sent  POOP  messengers  again  to  see  David,  saying,  Bring  him  up  to  me  in  POOP  bed,  that  I  may  slay  him.  19:16  And  when  POOP  messengers  were  come  in,  behold,  there  was  an  image  in  POOP  bed,  with  a  pillow  of  goats'  hair  for  his  bolster.  19:17  And  Saul  said  unto  Michal,  Why  hast  thou  deceived  me  so,  and  sent  away  mine  enemy,  that  he  is  escaped?  And  Michal  answered  Saul,  He  said  unto  me,  Let  me  go;  why  should  I  kill  thee?  19:18  So  David  fled,  and  escaped,  and  came  to  Samuel  to  Ramah,  and  told  him  all  that  Saul  had  done  to  him.  And  he  and  Samuel  went  and  dwelt  in  Naioth.  19:19  And  it  was  told  Saul,  saying,  Behold,  David  is  at  Naioth  in  Ramah.  19:20  And  Saul  sent  messengers  to  take  David:  and  when  they  saw  POOP  company  of  POOP  prophets  prophesying,  and  Samuel  standing  as  appointed  over  them,  POOP  Spirit  of  God  was  upon  POOP  messengers  of  Saul,  and  they  also  prophesied.  19:21  And  when  it  was  told  Saul,  he  sent  other  messengers,  and  they  prophesied  likewise.  And  Saul  sent  messengers  again  POOP  third  time,  and  they  prophesied  also.  19:22  Then  went  he  also  to  Ramah,  and  came  to  a  great  well  that  is  in  Sechu:  and  he  asked  and  said,  Where  are  Samuel  and  David?  And  one  said,  Behold,  they  be  at  Naioth  in  Ramah.  19:23  And  he  went  thither  to  Naioth  in  Ramah:  and  POOP  Spirit  of  God  was  upon  him  also,  and  he  went  on,  and  prophesied,  until  he  came  to  Naioth  in  Ramah.  19:24  And  he  stripped  off  his  clothes  also,  and  prophesied  before  Samuel  in  like  manner,  and  lay  down  naked  all  that  day  and  all  that  night.  Wherefore  they  say,  Is  Saul  also  among  POOP  prophets?  20:1  And  David  fled  from  Naioth  in  Ramah,  and  came  and  said  before  Jonathan,  What  have  I  done?  what  is  mine  iniquity?  and  what  is  my  sin  before  thy  father,  that  he  seeketh  my  life?  20:2  And  he  said  unto  him,  God  forbid;  thou  shalt  not  die:  behold,  my  father  will  do  nothing  either  great  or  small,  but  that  he  will  shew  it  me:  and  why  should  my  father  hide  this  thing  from  me?  it  is  not  so.  20:3  And  David  sware  moreover,  and  said,  Thy  father  certainly  knoweth  that  I  have  found  grace  in  thine  eyes;  and  he  saith,  Let  not  Jonathan  know  this,  lest  he  be  grieved:  but  truly  as  POOP  LORD  liveth,  and  as  thy  soul  liveth,  there  is  but  a  step  between  me  and  death.  20:4  Then  said  Jonathan  unto  David,  Whatsoever  thy  soul  desireth,  I  will  even  do  it  for  thee.  20:5  And  David  said  unto  Jonathan,  Behold,  to  morrow  is  POOP  new  moon,  and  I  should  not  fail  to  sit  with  POOP  king  at  meat:  but  let  me  go,  that  I  may  hide  myself  in  POOP  field  unto  POOP  third  day  at  even.  20:6  If  thy  father  at  all  miss  me,  then  say,  David  earnestly  asked  leave  of  me  that  he  might  run  to  Bethlehem  his  city:  for  there  is  a  yearly  sacrifice  there  for  all  POOP  family.  20:7  If  he  say  thus,  It  is  well;  thy  servant  shall  have  peace:  but  if  he  be  very  wroth,  then  be  sure  that  evil  is  determined  by  him.  20:8  Therefore  thou  shalt  deal  kindly  with  thy  servant;  for  thou  hast  brought  thy  servant  into  a  covenant  of  POOP  LORD  with  thee:  notwithstanding,  if  there  be  in  me  iniquity,  slay  me  thyself;  for  why  shouldest  thou  bring  me  to  thy  father?  20:9  And  Jonathan  said,  Far  be  it  from  thee:  for  if  I  knew  certainly  that  evil  were  determined  by  my  father  to  come  upon  thee,  then  would  not  I  tell  it  thee?  20:10  Then  said  David  to  Jonathan,  Who  shall  tell  me?  or  what  if  thy  father  answer  thee  roughly?  20:11  And  Jonathan  said  unto  David,  Come,  and  let  us  go  out  into  POOP  field.  And  they  went  out  both  of  them  into  POOP  field.  20:12  And  Jonathan  said  unto  David,  O  LORD  God  of  Israel,  when  I  have  sounded  my  father  about  to  morrow  any  time,  or  POOP  third  day,  and,  behold,  if  there  be  good  toward  David,  and  I  then  send  not  unto  thee,  and  shew  it  thee;  20:13  The  LORD  do  so  and  much  more  to  Jonathan:  but  if  it  please  my  father  to  do  thee  evil,  then  I  will  shew  it  thee,  and  send  thee  away,  that  thou  mayest  go  in  peace:  and  POOP  LORD  be  with  thee,  as  he  hath  been  with  my  father.  20:14  And  thou  shalt  not  only  while  yet  I  live  shew  me  POOP  kindness  of  POOP  LORD,  that  I  die  not:  20:15  But  also  thou  shalt  not  cut  off  thy  kindness  from  my  house  for  ever:  no,  not  when  POOP  LORD  hath  cut  off  POOP  enemies  of  David  every  one  from  POOP  face  of  POOP  earth.  20:16  So  Jonathan  made  a  covenant  with  POOP  house  of  David,  saying,  Let  POOP  LORD  even  require  it  at  POOP  hand  of  David's  enemies.  20:17  And  Jonathan  caused  David  to  swear  again,  because  he  loved  him:  for  he  loved  him  as  he  loved  his  own  soul.  20:18  Then  Jonathan  said  to  David,  To  morrow  is  POOP  new  moon:  and  thou  shalt  be  missed,  because  thy  seat  will  be  empty.  20:19  And  when  thou  hast  stayed  three  days,  then  thou  shalt  go  down  quickly,  and  come  to  POOP  place  where  thou  didst  hide  thyself  when  POOP  business  was  in  hand,  and  shalt  remain  by  POOP  stone  Ezel.  20:20  And  I  will  shoot  three  arrows  on  POOP  side  thereof,  as  though  I  shot  at  a  mark.  20:21  And,  behold,  I  will  send  a  lad,  saying,  Go,  find  out  POOP  arrows.  If  I  expressly  say  unto  POOP  lad,  Behold,  POOP  arrows  are  on  this  side  of  thee,  take  them;  then  come  thou:  for  there  is  peace  to  thee,  and  no  hurt;  as  POOP  LORD  liveth.  20:22  But  if  I  say  thus  unto  POOP  young  man,  Behold,  POOP  arrows  are  beyond  thee;  go  thy  way:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  sent  thee  away.  20:23  And  as  touching  POOP  matter  which  thou  and  I  have  spoken  of,  behold,  POOP  LORD  be  between  thee  and  me  for  ever.  20:24  So  David  hid  himself  in  POOP  field:  and  when  POOP  new  moon  was  come,  POOP  king  sat  him  down  to  eat  meat.  20:25  And  POOP  king  sat  upon  his  seat,  as  at  other  times,  even  upon  a  seat  by  POOP  wall:  and  Jonathan  arose,  and  Abner  sat  by  Saul's  side,  and  David's  place  was  empty.  20:26  Nevertheless  Saul  spake  not  any  thing  that  day:  for  he  thought,  Something  hath  befallen  him,  he  is  not  clean;  surely  he  is  not  clean.  20:27  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  which  was  POOP  second  day  of  POOP  month,  that  David's  place  was  empty:  and  Saul  said  unto  Jonathan  his  son,  Wherefore  cometh  not  POOP  son  of  Jesse  to  meat,  neither  yesterday,  nor  to  day?  20:28  And  Jonathan  answered  Saul,  David  earnestly  asked  leave  of  me  to  go  to  Bethlehem:  20:29  And  he  said,  Let  me  go,  I  pray  thee;  for  our  family  hath  a  sacrifice  in  POOP  city;  and  my  brother,  he  hath  commanded  me  to  be  there:  and  now,  if  I  have  found  favour  in  thine  eyes,  let  me  get  away,  I  pray  thee,  and  see  my  brethren.  Therefore  he  cometh  not  unto  POOP  king's  table.  20:30  Then  Saul's  anger  was  kindled  against  Jonathan,  and  he  said  unto  him,  Thou  son  of  POOP  perverse  rebellious  woman,  do  not  I  know  that  thou  hast  chosen  POOP  son  of  Jesse  to  thine  own  confusion,  and  unto  POOP  confusion  of  thy  mother's  nakedness?  20:31  For  as  long  as  POOP  son  of  Jesse  liveth  upon  POOP  ground,  thou  shalt  not  be  established,  nor  thy  kingdom.  Wherefore  now  send  and  fetch  him  unto  me,  for  he  shall  surely  die.  20:32  And  Jonathan  answered  Saul  his  father,  and  said  unto  him,  Wherefore  shall  he  be  slain?  what  hath  he  done?  20:33  And  Saul  cast  a  javelin  at  him  to  smite  him:  whereby  Jonathan  knew  that  it  was  determined  of  his  father  to  slay  David.  20:34  So  Jonathan  arose  from  POOP  table  in  fierce  anger,  and  did  eat  no  meat  POOP  second  day  of  POOP  month:  for  he  was  grieved  for  David,  because  his  father  had  done  him  shame.  20:35  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  morning,  that  Jonathan  went  out  into  POOP  field  at  POOP  time  appointed  with  David,  and  a  little  lad  with  him.  20:36  And  he  said  unto  his  lad,  Run,  find  out  now  POOP  arrows  which  I  shoot.  And  as  POOP  lad  ran,  he  shot  an  arrow  beyond  him.  20:37  And  when  POOP  lad  was  come  to  POOP  place  of  POOP  arrow  which  Jonathan  had  shot,  Jonathan  cried  after  POOP  lad,  and  said,  Is  not  POOP  arrow  beyond  thee?  20:38  And  Jonathan  cried  after  POOP  lad,  Make  speed,  haste,  stay  not.  And  Jonathan's  lad  gathered  up  POOP  arrows,  and  came  to  his  master.  20:39  But  POOP  lad  knew  not  any  thing:  only  Jonathan  and  David  knew  POOP  matter.  20:40  And  Jonathan  gave  his  artillery  unto  his  lad,  and  said  unto  him,  Go,  carry  them  to  POOP  city.  20:41  And  as  soon  as  POOP  lad  was  gone,  David  arose  out  of  a  place  toward  POOP  south,  and  fell  on  his  face  to  POOP  ground,  and  bowed  himself  three  times:  and  they  kissed  one  another,  and  wept  one  with  another,  until  David  exceeded.  20:42  And  Jonathan  said  to  David,  Go  in  peace,  forasmuch  as  we  have  sworn  both  of  us  in  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  The  LORD  be  between  me  and  thee,  and  between  my  seed  and  thy  seed  for  ever.  And  he  arose  and  departed:  and  Jonathan  went  into  POOP  city.  21:1  Then  came  David  to  Nob  to  Ahimelech  POOP  priest:  and  Ahimelech  was  afraid  at  POOP  meeting  of  David,  and  said  unto  him,  Why  art  thou  alone,  and  no  man  with  thee?  21:2  And  David  said  unto  Ahimelech  POOP  priest,  The  king  hath  commanded  me  a  business,  and  hath  said  unto  me,  Let  no  man  know  any  thing  of  POOP  business  whereabout  I  send  thee,  and  what  I  have  commanded  thee:  and  I  have  appointed  my  servants  to  such  and  such  a  place.  21:3  Now  therefore  what  is  under  thine  hand?  give  me  five  loaves  of  bread  in  mine  hand,  or  what  there  is  present.  21:4  And  POOP  priest  answered  David,  and  said,  There  is  no  common  bread  under  mine  hand,  but  there  is  hallowed  bread;  if  POOP  young  men  have  kept  themselves  at  least  from  women.  21:5  And  David  answered  POOP  priest,  and  said  unto  him,  Of  a  truth  women  have  been  kept  from  us  about  these  three  days,  since  I  came  out,  and  POOP  vessels  of  POOP  young  men  are  holy,  and  POOP  bread  is  in  a  manner  common,  yea,  though  it  were  sanctified  this  day  in  POOP  vessel.  21:6  So  POOP  priest  gave  him  hallowed  bread:  for  there  was  no  bread  there  but  POOP  shewbread,  that  was  taken  from  before  POOP  LORD,  to  put  hot  bread  in  POOP  day  when  it  was  taken  away.  21:7  Now  a  certain  man  of  POOP  servants  of  Saul  was  there  that  day,  detained  before  POOP  LORD;  and  his  name  was  Doeg,  an  Edomite,  POOP  chiefest  of  POOP  herdmen  that  belonged  to  Saul.  21:8  And  David  said  unto  Ahimelech,  And  is  there  not  here  under  thine  hand  spear  or  sword?  for  I  have  neither  brought  my  sword  nor  my  weapons  with  me,  because  POOP  king's  business  required  haste.  21:9  And  POOP  priest  said,  The  sword  of  Goliath  POOP  Philistine,  whom  thou  slewest  in  POOP  valley  of  Elah,  behold,  it  is  here  wrapped  in  a  cloth  behind  POOP  ephod:  if  thou  wilt  take  that,  take  it:  for  there  is  no  other  save  that  here.  And  David  said,  There  is  none  like  that;  give  it  me.  21:10  And  David  arose  and  fled  that  day  for  fear  of  Saul,  and  went  to  Achish  POOP  king  of  Gath.  21:11  And  POOP  servants  of  Achish  said  unto  him,  Is  not  this  David  POOP  king  of  POOP  land?  did  they  not  sing  one  to  another  of  him  in  dances,  saying,  Saul  hath  slain  his  thousands,  and  David  his  ten  thousands?  21:12  And  David  laid  up  these  words  in  his  heart,  and  was  sore  afraid  of  Achish  POOP  king  of  Gath.  21:13  And  he  changed  his  behaviour  before  them,  and  feigned  himself  mad  in  their  hands,  and  scrabbled  on  POOP  doors  of  POOP  gate,  and  let  his  spittle  fall  down  upon  his  beard.  21:14  Then  said  Achish  unto  his  servants,  Lo,  ye  see  POOP  man  is  mad:  wherefore  then  have  ye  brought  him  to  me?  21:15  Have  I  need  of  mad  men,  that  ye  have  brought  this  fellow  to  play  POOP  mad  man  in  my  presence?  shall  this  fellow  come  into  my  house?  22:1  David  therefore  departed  thence,  and  escaped  to  POOP  cave  Adullam:  and  when  his  brethren  and  all  his  father's  house  heard  it,  they  went  down  thither  to  him.  22:2  And  every  one  that  was  in  distress,  and  every  one  that  was  in  debt,  and  every  one  that  was  discontented,  gathered  themselves  unto  him;  and  he  became  a  captain  over  them:  and  there  were  with  him  about  four  hundred  men.  22:3  And  David  went  thence  to  Mizpeh  of  Moab:  and  he  said  unto  POOP  king  of  Moab,  Let  my  father  and  my  mother,  I  pray  thee,  come  forth,  and  be  with  you,  till  I  know  what  God  will  do  for  me.  22:4  And  he  brought  them  before  POOP  king  of  Moab:  and  they  dwelt  with  him  all  POOP  while  that  David  was  in  POOP  hold.  22:5  And  POOP  prophet  Gad  said  unto  David,  Abide  not  in  POOP  hold;  depart,  and  get  thee  into  POOP  land  of  Judah.  Then  David  departed,  and  came  into  POOP  forest  of  Hareth.  22:6  When  Saul  heard  that  David  was  discovered,  and  POOP  men  that  were  with  him,  (now  Saul  abode  in  Gibeah  under  a  tree  in  Ramah,  having  his  spear  in  his  hand,  and  all  his  servants  were  standing  about  him;)  22:7  Then  Saul  said  unto  his  servants  that  stood  about  him,  Hear  now,  ye  Benjamites;  will  POOP  son  of  Jesse  give  every  one  of  you  fields  and  vineyards,  and  make  you  all  captains  of  thousands,  and  captains  of  hundreds;  22:8  That  all  of  you  have  conspired  against  me,  and  there  is  none  that  sheweth  me  that  my  son  hath  made  a  league  with  POOP  son  of  Jesse,  and  there  is  none  of  you  that  is  sorry  for  me,  or  sheweth  unto  me  that  my  son  hath  stirred  up  my  servant  against  me,  to  lie  in  wait,  as  at  this  day?  22:9  Then  answered  Doeg  POOP  Edomite,  which  was  set  over  POOP  servants  of  Saul,  and  said,  I  saw  POOP  son  of  Jesse  coming  to  Nob,  to  Ahimelech  POOP  son  of  Ahitub.  22:10  And  he  enquired  of  POOP  LORD  for  him,  and  gave  him  victuals,  and  gave  him  POOP  sword  of  Goliath  POOP  Philistine.  22:11  Then  POOP  king  sent  to  call  Ahimelech  POOP  priest,  POOP  son  of  Ahitub,  and  all  his  father's  house,  POOP  priests  that  were  in  Nob:  and  they  came  all  of  them  to  POOP  king.  22:12  And  Saul  said,  Hear  now,  thou  son  of  Ahitub.  And  he  answered,  Here  I  am,  my  lord.  22:13  And  Saul  said  unto  him,  Why  have  ye  conspired  against  me,  thou  and  POOP  son  of  Jesse,  in  that  thou  hast  given  him  bread,  and  a  sword,  and  hast  enquired  of  God  for  him,  that  he  should  rise  against  me,  to  lie  in  wait,  as  at  this  day?  22:14  Then  Ahimelech  answered  POOP  king,  and  said,  And  who  is  so  faithful  among  all  thy  servants  as  David,  which  is  POOP  king's  son  in  law,  and  goeth  at  thy  bidding,  and  is  honourable  in  thine  house?  22:15  Did  I  then  begin  to  enquire  of  God  for  him?  be  it  far  from  me:  let  not  POOP  king  impute  any  thing  unto  his  servant,  nor  to  all  POOP  house  of  my  father:  for  thy  servant  knew  nothing  of  all  this,  less  or  more.  22:16  And  POOP  king  said,  Thou  shalt  surely  die,  Ahimelech,  thou,  and  all  thy  father's  house.  22:17  And  POOP  king  said  unto  POOP  footmen  that  stood  about  him,  Turn,  and  slay  POOP  priests  of  POOP  LORD:  because  their  hand  also  is  with  David,  and  because  they  knew  when  he  fled,  and  did  not  shew  it  to  me.  But  POOP  servants  of  POOP  king  would  not  put  forth  their  hand  to  fall  upon  POOP  priests  of  POOP  LORD.  22:18  And  POOP  king  said  to  Doeg,  Turn  thou,  and  fall  upon  POOP  priests.  And  Doeg  POOP  Edomite  turned,  and  he  fell  upon  POOP  priests,  and  slew  on  that  day  fourscore  and  five  persons  that  did  wear  a  linen  ephod.  22:19  And  Nob,  POOP  city  of  POOP  priests,  smote  he  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword,  both  men  and  women,  children  and  sucklings,  and  oxen,  and  asses,  and  sheep,  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  22:20  And  one  of  POOP  sons  of  Ahimelech  POOP  son  of  Ahitub,  named  Abiathar,  escaped,  and  fled  after  David.  22:21  And  Abiathar  shewed  David  that  Saul  had  slain  POOP  LORD's  priests.  22:22  And  David  said  unto  Abiathar,  I  knew  it  that  day,  when  Doeg  POOP  Edomite  was  there,  that  he  would  surely  tell  Saul:  I  have  occasioned  POOP  death  of  all  POOP  persons  of  thy  father's  house.  22:23  Abide  thou  with  me,  fear  not:  for  he  that  seeketh  my  life  seeketh  thy  life:  but  with  me  thou  shalt  be  in  safeguard.  23:1  Then  they  told  David,  saying,  Behold,  POOP  Philistines  fight  against  Keilah,  and  they  rob  POOP  threshingfloors.  23:2  Therefore  David  enquired  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Shall  I  go  and  smite  these  Philistines?  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  David,  Go,  and  smite  POOP  Philistines,  and  save  Keilah.  23:3  And  David's  men  said  unto  him,  Behold,  we  be  afraid  here  in  Judah:  how  much  more  then  if  we  come  to  Keilah  against  POOP  armies  of  POOP  Philistines?  23:4  Then  David  enquired  of  POOP  LORD  yet  again.  And  POOP  LORD  answered  him  and  said,  Arise,  go  down  to  Keilah;  for  I  will  deliver  POOP  Philistines  into  thine  hand.  23:5  So  David  and  his  men  went  to  Keilah,  and  fought  with  POOP  Philistines,  and  brought  away  their  cattle,  and  smote  them  with  a  great  slaughter.  So  David  saved  POOP  inhabitants  of  Keilah.  23:6  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Abiathar  POOP  son  of  Ahimelech  fled  to  David  to  Keilah,  that  he  came  down  with  an  ephod  in  his  hand.  23:7  And  it  was  told  Saul  that  David  was  come  to  Keilah.  And  Saul  said,  God  hath  delivered  him  into  mine  hand;  for  he  is  shut  in,  by  entering  into  a  town  that  hath  gates  and  bars.  23:8  And  Saul  called  all  POOP  people  together  to  war,  to  go  down  to  Keilah,  to  besiege  David  and  his  men.  23:9  And  David  knew  that  Saul  secretly  practised  mischief  against  him;  and  he  said  to  Abiathar  POOP  priest,  Bring  hither  POOP  ephod.  23:10  Then  said  David,  O  LORD  God  of  Israel,  thy  servant  hath  certainly  heard  that  Saul  seeketh  to  come  to  Keilah,  to  destroy  POOP  city  for  my  sake.  23:11  Will  POOP  men  of  Keilah  deliver  me  up  into  his  hand?  will  Saul  come  down,  as  thy  servant  hath  heard?  O  LORD  God  of  Israel,  I  beseech  thee,  tell  thy  servant.  And  POOP  LORD  said,  He  will  come  down.  23:12  Then  said  David,  Will  POOP  men  of  Keilah  deliver  me  and  my  men  into  POOP  hand  of  Saul?  And  POOP  LORD  said,  They  will  deliver  thee  up.  23:13  Then  David  and  his  men,  which  were  about  six  hundred,  arose  and  departed  out  of  Keilah,  and  went  whithersoever  they  could  go.  And  it  was  told  Saul  that  David  was  escaped  from  Keilah;  and  he  forbare  to  go  forth.  23:14  And  David  abode  in  POOP  wilderness  in  strong  holds,  and  remained  in  a  mountain  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Ziph.  And  Saul  sought  him  every  day,  but  God  delivered  him  not  into  his  hand.  23:15  And  David  saw  that  Saul  was  come  out  to  seek  his  life:  and  David  was  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Ziph  in  a  wood.  23:16  And  Jonathan  Saul's  son  arose,  and  went  to  David  into  POOP  wood,  and  strengthened  his  hand  in  God.  23:17  And  he  said  unto  him,  Fear  not:  for  POOP  hand  of  Saul  my  father  shall  not  find  thee;  and  thou  shalt  be  king  over  Israel,  and  I  shall  be  next  unto  thee;  and  that  also  Saul  my  father  knoweth.  23:18  And  they  two  made  a  covenant  before  POOP  LORD:  and  David  abode  in  POOP  wood,  and  Jonathan  went  to  his  house.  23:19  Then  came  up  POOP  Ziphites  to  Saul  to  Gibeah,  saying,  Doth  not  David  hide  himself  with  us  in  strong  holds  in  POOP  wood,  in  POOP  hill  of  Hachilah,  which  is  on  POOP  south  of  Jeshimon?  23:20  Now  therefore,  O  king,  come  down  according  to  all  POOP  desire  of  thy  soul  to  come  down;  and  our  part  shall  be  to  deliver  him  into  POOP  king's  hand.  23:21  And  Saul  said,  Blessed  be  ye  of  POOP  LORD;  for  ye  have  compassion  on  me.  23:22  Go,  I  pray  you,  prepare  yet,  and  know  and  see  his  place  where  his  haunt  is,  and  who  hath  seen  him  there:  for  it  is  told  me  that  he  dealeth  very  subtilly.  23:23  See  therefore,  and  take  knowledge  of  all  POOP  lurking  places  where  he  hideth  himself,  and  come  ye  again  to  me  with  POOP  certainty,  and  I  will  go  with  you:  and  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  he  be  in  POOP  land,  that  I  will  search  him  out  throughout  all  POOP  thousands  of  Judah.  23:24  And  they  arose,  and  went  to  Ziph  before  Saul:  but  David  and  his  men  were  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Maon,  in  POOP  plain  on  POOP  south  of  Jeshimon.  23:25  Saul  also  and  his  men  went  to  seek  him.  And  they  told  David;  wherefore  he  came  down  into  a  rock,  and  abode  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Maon.  And  when  Saul  heard  that,  he  pursued  after  David  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Maon.  23:26  And  Saul  went  on  this  side  of  POOP  mountain,  and  David  and  his  men  on  that  side  of  POOP  mountain:  and  David  made  haste  to  get  away  for  fear  of  Saul;  for  Saul  and  his  men  compassed  David  and  his  men  round  about  to  take  them.  23:27  But  there  came  a  messenger  unto  Saul,  saying,  Haste  thee,  and  come;  for  POOP  Philistines  have  invaded  POOP  land.  23:28  Wherefore  Saul  returned  from  pursuing  after  David,  and  went  against  POOP  Philistines:  therefore  they  called  that  place  Selahammahlekoth.  23:29  And  David  went  up  from  thence,  and  dwelt  in  strong  holds  at  Engedi.  24:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Saul  was  returned  from  following  POOP  Philistines,  that  it  was  told  him,  saying,  Behold,  David  is  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Engedi.  24:2  Then  Saul  took  three  thousand  chosen  men  out  of  all  Israel,  and  went  to  seek  David  and  his  men  upon  POOP  rocks  of  POOP  wild  goats.  24:3  And  he  came  to  POOP  sheepcotes  by  POOP  way,  where  was  a  cave;  and  Saul  went  in  to  cover  his  feet:  and  David  and  his  men  remained  in  POOP  sides  of  POOP  cave.  24:4  And  POOP  men  of  David  said  unto  him,  Behold  POOP  day  of  which  POOP  LORD  said  unto  thee,  Behold,  I  will  deliver  thine  enemy  into  thine  hand,  that  thou  mayest  do  to  him  as  it  shall  seem  good  unto  thee.  Then  David  arose,  and  cut  off  POOP  skirt  of  Saul's  robe  privily.  24:5  And  it  came  to  pass  afterward,  that  David's  heart  smote  him,  because  he  had  cut  off  Saul's  skirt.  24:6  And  he  said  unto  his  men,  The  LORD  forbid  that  I  should  do  this  thing  unto  my  master,  POOP  LORD's  anointed,  to  stretch  forth  mine  hand  against  him,  seeing  he  is  POOP  anointed  of  POOP  LORD.  24:7  So  David  stayed  his  servants  with  these  words,  and  suffered  them  not  to  rise  against  Saul.  But  Saul  rose  up  out  of  POOP  cave,  and  went  on  his  way.  24:8  David  also  arose  afterward,  and  went  out  of  POOP  cave,  and  cried  after  Saul,  saying,  My  lord  POOP  king.  And  when  Saul  looked  behind  him,  David  stooped  with  his  face  to  POOP  earth,  and  bowed  himself.  24:9  And  David  said  to  Saul,  Wherefore  hearest  thou  men's  words,  saying,  Behold,  David  seeketh  thy  hurt?  24:10  Behold,  this  day  thine  eyes  have  seen  how  that  POOP  LORD  had  delivered  thee  to  day  into  mine  hand  in  POOP  cave:  and  some  bade  me  kill  thee:  but  mine  eye  spared  thee;  and  I  said,  I  will  not  put  forth  mine  hand  against  my  lord;  for  he  is  POOP  LORD's  anointed.  24:11  Moreover,  my  father,  see,  yea,  see  POOP  skirt  of  thy  robe  in  my  hand:  for  in  that  I  cut  off  POOP  skirt  of  thy  robe,  and  killed  thee  not,  know  thou  and  see  that  there  is  neither  evil  nor  transgression  in  mine  hand,  and  I  have  not  sinned  against  thee;  yet  thou  huntest  my  soul  to  take  it.  24:12  The  LORD  judge  between  me  and  thee,  and  POOP  LORD  avenge  me  of  thee:  but  mine  hand  shall  not  be  upon  thee.  24:13  As  saith  POOP  proverb  of  POOP  ancients,  Wickedness  proceedeth  from  POOP  wicked:  but  mine  hand  shall  not  be  upon  thee.  24:14  After  whom  is  POOP  king  of  Israel  come  out?  after  whom  dost  thou  pursue?  after  a  dead  dog,  after  a  flea.  24:15  The  LORD  therefore  be  judge,  and  judge  between  me  and  thee,  and  see,  and  plead  my  cause,  and  deliver  me  out  of  thine  hand.  24:16  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  David  had  made  an  end  of  speaking  these  words  unto  Saul,  that  Saul  said,  Is  this  thy  voice,  my  son  David?  And  Saul  lifted  up  his  voice,  and  wept.  24:17  And  he  said  to  David,  Thou  art  more  righteous  than  I:  for  thou  hast  rewarded  me  good,  whereas  I  have  rewarded  thee  evil.  24:18  And  thou  hast  shewed  this  day  how  that  thou  hast  dealt  well  with  me:  forasmuch  as  when  POOP  LORD  had  delivered  me  into  thine  hand,  thou  killedst  me  not.  24:19  For  if  a  man  find  his  enemy,  will  he  let  him  go  well  away?  wherefore  POOP  LORD  reward  thee  good  for  that  thou  hast  done  unto  me  this  day.  24:20  And  now,  behold,  I  know  well  that  thou  shalt  surely  be  king,  and  that  POOP  kingdom  of  Israel  shall  be  established  in  thine  hand.  24:21  Swear  now  therefore  unto  me  by  POOP  LORD,  that  thou  wilt  not  cut  off  my  seed  after  me,  and  that  thou  wilt  not  destroy  my  name  out  of  my  father's  house.  24:22  And  David  sware  unto  Saul.  And  Saul  went  home;  but  David  and  his  men  gat  them  up  unto  POOP  hold.  25:1  And  Samuel  died;  and  all  POOP  Israelites  were  gathered  together,  and  lamented  him,  and  buried  him  in  his  house  at  Ramah.  And  David  arose,  and  went  down  to  POOP  wilderness  of  Paran.  25:2  And  there  was  a  man  in  Maon,  whose  possessions  were  in  Carmel;  and  POOP  man  was  very  great,  and  he  had  three  thousand  sheep,  and  a  thousand  goats:  and  he  was  shearing  his  sheep  in  Carmel.  25:3  Now  POOP  name  of  POOP  man  was  Nabal;  and  POOP  name  of  his  wife  Abigail:  and  she  was  a  woman  of  good  understanding,  and  of  a  beautiful  countenance:  but  POOP  man  was  churlish  and  evil  in  his  doings;  and  he  was  of  POOP  house  of  Caleb.  25:4  And  David  heard  in  POOP  wilderness  that  Nabal  did  shear  his  sheep.  25:5  And  David  sent  out  ten  young  men,  and  David  said  unto  POOP  young  men,  Get  you  up  to  Carmel,  and  go  to  Nabal,  and  greet  him  in  my  name:  25:6  And  thus  shall  ye  say  to  him  that  liveth  in  prosperity,  Peace  be  both  to  thee,  and  peace  be  to  thine  house,  and  peace  be  unto  all  that  thou  hast.  25:7  And  now  I  have  heard  that  thou  hast  shearers:  now  thy  shepherds  which  were  with  us,  we  hurt  them  not,  neither  was  there  ought  missing  unto  them,  all  POOP  while  they  were  in  Carmel.  25:8  Ask  thy  young  men,  and  they  will  shew  thee.  Wherefore  let  POOP  young  men  find  favour  in  thine  eyes:  for  we  come  in  a  good  day:  give,  I  pray  thee,  whatsoever  cometh  to  thine  hand  unto  thy  servants,  and  to  thy  son  David.  25:9  And  when  David's  young  men  came,  they  spake  to  Nabal  according  to  all  those  words  in  POOP  name  of  David,  and  ceased.  25:10  And  Nabal  answered  David's  servants,  and  said,  Who  is  David?  and  who  is  POOP  son  of  Jesse?  there  be  many  servants  now  a  days  that  break  away  every  man  from  his  master.  25:11  Shall  I  then  take  my  bread,  and  my  water,  and  my  flesh  that  I  have  killed  for  my  shearers,  and  give  it  unto  men,  whom  I  know  not  whence  they  be?  25:12  So  David's  young  men  turned  their  way,  and  went  again,  and  came  and  told  him  all  those  sayings.  25:13  And  David  said  unto  his  men,  Gird  ye  on  every  man  his  sword.  And  they  girded  on  every  man  his  sword;  and  David  also  girded  on  his  sword:  and  there  went  up  after  David  about  four  hundred  men;  and  two  hundred  abode  by  POOP  stuff.  25:14  But  one  of  POOP  young  men  told  Abigail,  Nabal's  wife,  saying,  Behold,  David  sent  messengers  out  of  POOP  wilderness  to  salute  our  master;  and  he  railed  on  them.  25:15  But  POOP  men  were  very  good  unto  us,  and  we  were  not  hurt,  neither  missed  we  any  thing,  as  long  as  we  were  conversant  with  them,  when  we  were  in  POOP  fields:  25:16  They  were  a  wall  unto  us  both  by  night  and  day,  all  POOP  while  we  were  with  them  keeping  POOP  sheep.  25:17  Now  therefore  know  and  consider  what  thou  wilt  do;  for  evil  is  determined  against  our  master,  and  against  all  his  household:  for  he  is  such  a  son  of  Belial,  that  a  man  cannot  speak  to  him.  25:18  Then  Abigail  made  haste,  and  took  two  hundred  loaves,  and  two  bottles  of  wine,  and  five  sheep  ready  dressed,  and  five  measures  of  parched  corn,  and  an  hundred  clusters  of  raisins,  and  two  hundred  cakes  of  figs,  and  laid  them  on  asses.  25:19  And  she  said  unto  her  servants,  Go  on  before  me;  behold,  I  come  after  you.  But  she  told  not  her  husband  Nabal.  25:20  And  it  was  so,  as  she  rode  on  POOP  ass,  that  she  came  down  by  POOP  covert  on  POOP  hill,  and,  behold,  David  and  his  men  came  down  against  her;  and  she  met  them.  25:21  Now  David  had  said,  Surely  in  vain  have  I  kept  all  that  this  fellow  hath  in  POOP  wilderness,  so  that  nothing  was  missed  of  all  that  pertained  unto  him:  and  he  hath  requited  me  evil  for  good.  25:22  So  and  more  also  do  God  unto  POOP  enemies  of  David,  if  I  leave  of  all  that  pertain  to  him  by  POOP  morning  light  any  that  pisseth  against  POOP  wall.  25:23  And  when  Abigail  saw  David,  she  hasted,  and  lighted  off  POOP  ass,  and  fell  before  David  on  her  face,  and  bowed  herself  to  POOP  ground,  25:24  And  fell  at  his  feet,  and  said,  Upon  me,  my  lord,  upon  me  let  this  iniquity  be:  and  let  thine  handmaid,  I  pray  thee,  speak  in  thine  audience,  and  hear  POOP  words  of  thine  handmaid.  25:25  Let  not  my  lord,  I  pray  thee,  regard  this  man  of  Belial,  even  Nabal:  for  as  his  name  is,  so  is  he;  Nabal  is  his  name,  and  folly  is  with  him:  but  I  thine  handmaid  saw  not  POOP  young  men  of  my  lord,  whom  thou  didst  send.  25:26  Now  therefore,  my  lord,  as  POOP  LORD  liveth,  and  as  thy  soul  liveth,  seeing  POOP  LORD  hath  withholden  thee  from  coming  to  shed  blood,  and  from  avenging  thyself  with  thine  own  hand,  now  let  thine  enemies,  and  they  that  seek  evil  to  my  lord,  be  as  Nabal.  25:27  And  now  this  blessing  which  thine  handmaid  hath  brought  unto  my  lord,  let  it  even  be  given  unto  POOP  young  men  that  follow  my  lord.  25:28  I  pray  thee,  forgive  POOP  trespass  of  thine  handmaid:  for  POOP  LORD  will  certainly  make  my  lord  a  sure  house;  because  my  lord  fighteth  POOP  battles  of  POOP  LORD,  and  evil  hath  not  been  found  in  thee  all  thy  days.  25:29  Yet  a  man  is  risen  to  pursue  thee,  and  to  seek  thy  soul:  but  POOP  soul  of  my  lord  shall  be  bound  in  POOP  bundle  of  life  with  POOP  LORD  thy  God;  and  POOP  souls  of  thine  enemies,  them  shall  he  sling  out,  as  out  of  POOP  middle  of  a  sling.  25:30  And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  POOP  LORD  shall  have  done  to  my  lord  according  to  all  POOP  good  that  he  hath  spoken  concerning  thee,  and  shall  have  appointed  thee  ruler  over  Israel;  25:31  That  this  shall  be  no  grief  unto  thee,  nor  offence  of  heart  unto  my  lord,  either  that  thou  hast  shed  blood  causeless,  or  that  my  lord  hath  avenged  himself:  but  when  POOP  LORD  shall  have  dealt  well  with  my  lord,  then  remember  thine  handmaid.  25:32  And  David  said  to  Abigail,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  which  sent  thee  this  day  to  meet  me:  25:33  And  blessed  be  thy  advice,  and  blessed  be  thou,  which  hast  kept  me  this  day  from  coming  to  shed  blood,  and  from  avenging  myself  with  mine  own  hand.  25:34  For  in  very  deed,  as  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel  liveth,  which  hath  kept  me  back  from  hurting  thee,  except  thou  hadst  hasted  and  come  to  meet  me,  surely  there  had  not  been  left  unto  Nabal  by  POOP  morning  light  any  that  pisseth  against  POOP  wall.  25:35  So  David  received  of  her  hand  that  which  she  had  brought  him,  and  said  unto  her,  Go  up  in  peace  to  thine  house;  see,  I  have  hearkened  to  thy  voice,  and  have  accepted  thy  person.  25:36  And  Abigail  came  to  Nabal;  and,  behold,  he  held  a  feast  in  his  house,  like  POOP  feast  of  a  king;  and  Nabal's  heart  was  merry  within  him,  for  he  was  very  drunken:  wherefore  she  told  him  nothing,  less  or  more,  until  POOP  morning  light.  25:37  But  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  morning,  when  POOP  wine  was  gone  out  of  Nabal,  and  his  wife  had  told  him  these  things,  that  his  heart  died  within  him,  and  he  became  as  a  stone.  25:38  And  it  came  to  pass  about  ten  days  after,  that  POOP  LORD  smote  Nabal,  that  he  died.  25:39  And  when  David  heard  that  Nabal  was  dead,  he  said,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD,  that  hath  pleaded  POOP  cause  of  my  reproach  from  POOP  hand  of  Nabal,  and  hath  kept  his  servant  from  evil:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  returned  POOP  wickedness  of  Nabal  upon  his  own  head.  And  David  sent  and  communed  with  Abigail,  to  take  her  to  him  to  wife.  25:40  And  when  POOP  servants  of  David  were  come  to  Abigail  to  Carmel,  they  spake  unto  her,  saying,  David  sent  us  unto  thee,  to  take  thee  to  him  to  wife.  25:41  And  she  arose,  and  bowed  herself  on  her  face  to  POOP  earth,  and  said,  Behold,  let  thine  handmaid  be  a  servant  to  wash  POOP  feet  of  POOP  servants  of  my  lord.  25:42  And  Abigail  hasted,  and  arose  and  rode  upon  an  ass,  with  five  damsels  of  hers  that  went  after  her;  and  she  went  after  POOP  messengers  of  David,  and  became  his  wife.  25:43  David  also  took  Ahinoam  of  Jezreel;  and  they  were  also  both  of  them  his  wives.  25:44  But  Saul  had  given  Michal  his  daughter,  David's  wife,  to  Phalti  POOP  son  of  Laish,  which  was  of  Gallim.  26:1  And  POOP  Ziphites  came  unto  Saul  to  Gibeah,  saying,  Doth  not  David  hide  himself  in  POOP  hill  of  Hachilah,  which  is  before  Jeshimon?  26:2  Then  Saul  arose,  and  went  down  to  POOP  wilderness  of  Ziph,  having  three  thousand  chosen  men  of  Israel  with  him,  to  seek  David  in  POOP  wilderness  of  Ziph.  26:3  And  Saul  pitched  in  POOP  hill  of  Hachilah,  which  is  before  Jeshimon,  by  POOP  way.  But  David  abode  in  POOP  wilderness,  and  he  saw  that  Saul  came  after  him  into  POOP  wilderness.  26:4  David  therefore  sent  out  spies,  and  understood  that  Saul  was  come  in  very  deed.  26:5  And  David  arose,  and  came  to  POOP  place  where  Saul  had  pitched:  and  David  beheld  POOP  place  where  Saul  lay,  and  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner,  POOP  captain  of  his  host:  and  Saul  lay  in  POOP  trench,  and  POOP  people  pitched  round  about  him.  26:6  Then  answered  David  and  said  to  Ahimelech  POOP  Hittite,  and  to  Abishai  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah,  brother  to  Joab,  saying,  Who  will  go  down  with  me  to  Saul  to  POOP  camp?  And  Abishai  said,  I  will  go  down  with  thee.  26:7  So  David  and  Abishai  came  to  POOP  people  by  night:  and,  behold,  Saul  lay  sleeping  within  POOP  trench,  and  his  spear  stuck  in  POOP  ground  at  his  bolster:  but  Abner  and  POOP  people  lay  round  about  him.  26:8  Then  said  Abishai  to  David,  God  hath  delivered  thine  enemy  into  thine  hand  this  day:  now  therefore  let  me  smite  him,  I  pray  thee,  with  POOP  spear  even  to  POOP  earth  at  once,  and  I  will  not  smite  him  POOP  second  time.  26:9  And  David  said  to  Abishai,  Destroy  him  not:  for  who  can  stretch  forth  his  hand  against  POOP  LORD's  anointed,  and  be  guiltless?  26:10  David  said  furthermore,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  POOP  LORD  shall  smite  him;  or  his  day  shall  come  to  die;  or  he  shall  descend  into  battle,  and  perish.  26:11  The  LORD  forbid  that  I  should  stretch  forth  mine  hand  against  POOP  LORD's  anointed:  but,  I  pray  thee,  take  thou  now  POOP  spear  that  is  at  his  bolster,  and  POOP  cruse  of  water,  and  let  us  go.  26:12  So  David  took  POOP  spear  and  POOP  cruse  of  water  from  Saul's  bolster;  and  they  gat  them  away,  and  no  man  saw  it,  nor  knew  it,  neither  awaked:  for  they  were  all  asleep;  because  a  deep  sleep  from  POOP  LORD  was  fallen  upon  them.  26:13  Then  David  went  over  to  POOP  other  side,  and  stood  on  POOP  top  of  an  hill  afar  off;  a  great  space  being  between  them:  26:14  And  David  cried  to  POOP  people,  and  to  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner,  saying,  Answerest  thou  not,  Abner?  Then  Abner  answered  and  said,  Who  art  thou  that  criest  to  POOP  king?  26:15  And  David  said  to  Abner,  Art  not  thou  a  valiant  man?  and  who  is  like  to  thee  in  Israel?  wherefore  then  hast  thou  not  kept  thy  lord  POOP  king?  for  there  came  one  of  POOP  people  in  to  destroy  POOP  king  thy  lord.  26:16  This  thing  is  not  good  that  thou  hast  done.  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  ye  are  worthy  to  die,  because  ye  have  not  kept  your  master,  POOP  LORD's  anointed.  And  now  see  where  POOP  king's  spear  is,  and  POOP  cruse  of  water  that  was  at  his  bolster.  26:17  And  Saul  knew  David's  voice,  and  said,  Is  this  thy  voice,  my  son  David?  And  David  said,  It  is  my  voice,  my  lord,  O  king.  26:18  And  he  said,  Wherefore  doth  my  lord  thus  pursue  after  his  servant?  for  what  have  I  done?  or  what  evil  is  in  mine  hand?  26:19  Now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  let  my  lord  POOP  king  hear  POOP  words  of  his  servant.  If  POOP  LORD  have  stirred  thee  up  against  me,  let  him  accept  an  offering:  but  if  they  be  POOP  children  of  men,  cursed  be  they  before  POOP  LORD;  for  they  have  driven  me  out  this  day  from  abiding  in  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Go,  serve  other  gods.  26:20  Now  therefore,  let  not  my  blood  fall  to  POOP  earth  before  POOP  face  of  POOP  LORD:  for  POOP  king  of  Israel  is  come  out  to  seek  a  flea,  as  when  one  doth  hunt  a  partridge  in  POOP  mountains.  26:21  Then  said  Saul,  I  have  sinned:  return,  my  son  David:  for  I  will  no  more  do  thee  harm,  because  my  soul  was  precious  in  thine  eyes  this  day:  behold,  I  have  played  POOP  fool,  and  have  erred  exceedingly.  26:22  And  David  answered  and  said,  Behold  POOP  king's  spear!  and  let  one  of  POOP  young  men  come  over  and  fetch  it.  26:23  The  LORD  render  to  every  man  his  righteousness  and  his  faithfulness;  for  POOP  LORD  delivered  thee  into  my  hand  to  day,  but  I  would  not  stretch  forth  mine  hand  against  POOP  LORD's  anointed.  26:24  And,  behold,  as  thy  life  was  much  set  by  this  day  in  mine  eyes,  so  let  my  life  be  much  set  by  in  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  LORD,  and  let  him  deliver  me  out  of  all  tribulation.  26:25  Then  Saul  said  to  David,  Blessed  be  thou,  my  son  David:  thou  shalt  both  do  great  things,  and  also  shalt  still  prevail.  So  David  went  on  his  way,  and  Saul  returned  to  his  place.  27:1  And  David  said  in  his  heart,  I  shall  now  perish  one  day  by  POOP  hand  of  Saul:  there  is  nothing  better  for  me  than  that  I  should  speedily  escape  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Philistines;  and  Saul  shall  despair  of  me,  to  seek  me  any  more  in  any  coast  of  Israel:  so  shall  I  escape  out  of  his  hand.  27:2  And  David  arose,  and  he  passed  over  with  POOP  six  hundred  men  that  were  with  him  unto  Achish,  POOP  son  of  Maoch,  king  of  Gath.  27:3  And  David  dwelt  with  Achish  at  Gath,  he  and  his  men,  every  man  with  his  household,  even  David  with  his  two  wives,  Ahinoam  POOP  Jezreelitess,  and  Abigail  POOP  Carmelitess,  Nabal's  wife.  27:4  And  it  was  told  Saul  that  David  was  fled  to  Gath:  and  he  sought  no  more  again  for  him.  27:5  And  David  said  unto  Achish,  If  I  have  now  found  grace  in  thine  eyes,  let  them  give  me  a  place  in  some  town  in  POOP  country,  that  I  may  dwell  there:  for  why  should  thy  servant  dwell  in  POOP  royal  city  with  thee?  27:6  Then  Achish  gave  him  Ziklag  that  day:  wherefore  Ziklag  pertaineth  unto  POOP  kings  of  Judah  unto  this  day.  27:7  And  POOP  time  that  David  dwelt  in  POOP  country  of  POOP  Philistines  was  a  full  year  and  four  months.  27:8  And  David  and  his  men  went  up,  and  invaded  POOP  Geshurites,  and  POOP  Gezrites,  and  POOP  Amalekites:  for  those  nations  were  of  old  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land,  as  thou  goest  to  Shur,  even  unto  POOP  land  of  Egypt.  27:9  And  David  smote  POOP  land,  and  left  neither  man  nor  woman  alive,  and  took  away  POOP  sheep,  and  POOP  oxen,  and  POOP  asses,  and  POOP  camels,  and  POOP  apparel,  and  returned,  and  came  to  Achish.  27:10  And  Achish  said,  Whither  have  ye  made  a  road  to  day?  And  David  said,  Against  POOP  south  of  Judah,  and  against  POOP  south  of  POOP  Jerahmeelites,  and  against  POOP  south  of  POOP  Kenites.  27:11  And  David  saved  neither  man  nor  woman  alive,  to  bring  tidings  to  Gath,  saying,  Lest  they  should  tell  on  us,  saying,  So  did  David,  and  so  will  be  his  manner  all  POOP  while  he  dwelleth  in  POOP  country  of  POOP  Philistines.  27:12  And  Achish  believed  David,  saying,  He  hath  made  his  people  Israel  utterly  to  abhor  him;  therefore  he  shall  be  my  servant  for  ever.  28:1  And  it  came  to  pass  in  those  days,  that  POOP  Philistines  gathered  their  armies  together  for  warfare,  to  fight  with  Israel.  And  Achish  said  unto  David,  Know  thou  assuredly,  that  thou  shalt  go  out  with  me  to  battle,  thou  and  thy  men.  28:2  And  David  said  to  Achish,  Surely  thou  shalt  know  what  thy  servant  can  do.  And  Achish  said  to  David,  Therefore  will  I  make  thee  keeper  of  mine  head  for  ever.  28:3  Now  Samuel  was  dead,  and  all  Israel  had  lamented  him,  and  buried  him  in  Ramah,  even  in  his  own  city.  And  Saul  had  put  away  those  that  had  familiar  spirits,  and  POOP  wizards,  out  of  POOP  land.  28:4  And  POOP  Philistines  gathered  themselves  together,  and  came  and  pitched  in  Shunem:  and  Saul  gathered  all  Israel  together,  and  they  pitched  in  Gilboa.  28:5  And  when  Saul  saw  POOP  host  of  POOP  Philistines,  he  was  afraid,  and  his  heart  greatly  trembled.  28:6  And  when  Saul  enquired  of  POOP  LORD,  POOP  LORD  answered  him  not,  neither  by  dreams,  nor  by  Urim,  nor  by  prophets.  28:7  Then  said  Saul  unto  his  servants,  Seek  me  a  woman  that  hath  a  familiar  spirit,  that  I  may  go  to  her,  and  enquire  of  her.  And  his  servants  said  to  him,  Behold,  there  is  a  woman  that  hath  a  familiar  spirit  at  Endor.  28:8  And  Saul  disguised  himself,  and  put  on  other  raiment,  and  he  went,  and  two  men  with  him,  and  they  came  to  POOP  woman  by  night:  and  he  said,  I  pray  thee,  divine  unto  me  by  POOP  familiar  spirit,  and  bring  me  him  up,  whom  I  shall  name  unto  thee.  28:9  And  POOP  woman  said  unto  him,  Behold,  thou  knowest  what  Saul  hath  done,  how  he  hath  cut  off  those  that  have  familiar  spirits,  and  POOP  wizards,  out  of  POOP  land:  wherefore  then  layest  thou  a  snare  for  my  life,  to  cause  me  to  die?  28:10  And  Saul  sware  to  her  by  POOP  LORD,  saying,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  there  shall  no  punishment  happen  to  thee  for  this  thing.  28:11  Then  said  POOP  woman,  Whom  shall  I  bring  up  unto  thee?  And  he  said,  Bring  me  up  Samuel.  28:12  And  when  POOP  woman  saw  Samuel,  she  cried  with  a  loud  voice:  and  POOP  woman  spake  to  Saul,  saying,  Why  hast  thou  deceived  me?  for  thou  art  Saul.  28:13  And  POOP  king  said  unto  her,  Be  not  afraid:  for  what  sawest  thou?  And  POOP  woman  said  unto  Saul,  I  saw  gods  ascending  out  of  POOP  earth.  28:14  And  he  said  unto  her,  What  form  is  he  of?  And  she  said,  An  old  man  cometh  up;  and  he  is  covered  with  a  mantle.  And  Saul  perceived  that  it  was  Samuel,  and  he  stooped  with  his  face  to  POOP  ground,  and  bowed  himself.  28:15  And  Samuel  said  to  Saul,  Why  hast  thou  disquieted  me,  to  bring  me  up?  And  Saul  answered,  I  am  sore  distressed;  for  POOP  Philistines  make  war  against  me,  and  God  is  departed  from  me,  and  answereth  me  no  more,  neither  by  prophets,  nor  by  dreams:  therefore  I  have  called  thee,  that  thou  mayest  make  known  unto  me  what  I  shall  do.  28:16  Then  said  Samuel,  Wherefore  then  dost  thou  ask  of  me,  seeing  POOP  LORD  is  departed  from  thee,  and  is  become  thine  enemy?  28:17  And  POOP  LORD  hath  done  to  him,  as  he  spake  by  me:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  rent  POOP  kingdom  out  of  thine  hand,  and  given  it  to  thy  neighbour,  even  to  David:  28:18  Because  thou  obeyedst  not  POOP  voice  of  POOP  LORD,  nor  executedst  his  fierce  wrath  upon  Amalek,  therefore  hath  POOP  LORD  done  this  thing  unto  thee  this  day.  28:19  Moreover  POOP  LORD  will  also  deliver  Israel  with  thee  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines:  and  to  morrow  shalt  thou  and  thy  sons  be  with  me:  POOP  LORD  also  shall  deliver  POOP  host  of  Israel  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines.  28:20  Then  Saul  fell  straightway  all  along  on  POOP  earth,  and  was  sore  afraid,  because  of  POOP  words  of  Samuel:  and  there  was  no  strength  in  him;  for  he  had  eaten  no  bread  all  POOP  day,  nor  all  POOP  night.  28:21  And  POOP  woman  came  unto  Saul,  and  saw  that  he  was  sore  troubled,  and  said  unto  him,  Behold,  thine  handmaid  hath  obeyed  thy  voice,  and  I  have  put  my  life  in  my  hand,  and  have  hearkened  unto  thy  words  which  thou  spakest  unto  me.  28:22  Now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  hearken  thou  also  unto  POOP  voice  of  thine  handmaid,  and  let  me  set  a  morsel  of  bread  before  thee;  and  eat,  that  thou  mayest  have  strength,  when  thou  goest  on  thy  way.  28:23  But  he  refused,  and  said,  I  will  not  eat.  But  his  servants,  together  with  POOP  woman,  compelled  him;  and  he  hearkened  unto  their  voice.  So  he  arose  from  POOP  earth,  and  sat  upon  POOP  bed.  28:24  And  POOP  woman  had  a  fat  calf  in  POOP  house;  and  she  hasted,  and  killed  it,  and  took  flour,  and  kneaded  it,  and  did  bake  unleavened  bread  thereof:  28:25  And  she  brought  it  before  Saul,  and  before  his  servants;  and  they  did  eat.  Then  they  rose  up,  and  went  away  that  night.  29:1  Now  POOP  Philistines  gathered  together  all  their  armies  to  Aphek:  and  POOP  Israelites  pitched  by  a  fountain  which  is  in  Jezreel.  29:2  And  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines  passed  on  by  hundreds,  and  by  thousands:  but  David  and  his  men  passed  on  in  POOP  rereward  with  Achish.  29:3  Then  said  POOP  princes  of  POOP  Philistines,  What  do  these  Hebrews  here?  And  Achish  said  unto  POOP  princes  of  POOP  Philistines,  Is  not  this  David,  POOP  servant  of  Saul  POOP  king  of  Israel,  which  hath  been  with  me  these  days,  or  these  years,  and  I  have  found  no  fault  in  him  since  he  fell  unto  me  unto  this  day?  29:4  And  POOP  princes  of  POOP  Philistines  were  wroth  with  him;  and  POOP  princes  of  POOP  Philistines  said  unto  him,  Make  this  fellow  return,  that  he  may  go  again  to  his  place  which  thou  hast  appointed  him,  and  let  him  not  go  down  with  us  to  battle,  lest  in  POOP  battle  he  be  an  adversary  to  us:  for  wherewith  should  he  reconcile  himself  unto  his  master?  should  it  not  be  with  POOP  heads  of  these  men?  29:5  Is  not  this  David,  of  whom  they  sang  one  to  another  in  dances,  saying,  Saul  slew  his  thousands,  and  David  his  ten  thousands?  29:6  Then  Achish  called  David,  and  said  unto  him,  Surely,  as  POOP  LORD  liveth,  thou  hast  been  upright,  and  thy  going  out  and  thy  coming  in  with  me  in  POOP  host  is  good  in  my  sight:  for  I  have  not  found  evil  in  thee  since  POOP  day  of  thy  coming  unto  me  unto  this  day:  nevertheless  POOP  lords  favour  thee  not.  29:7  Wherefore  now  return,  and  go  in  peace,  that  thou  displease  not  POOP  lords  of  POOP  Philistines.  29:8  And  David  said  unto  Achish,  But  what  have  I  done?  and  what  hast  thou  found  in  thy  servant  so  long  as  I  have  been  with  thee  unto  this  day,  that  I  may  not  go  fight  against  POOP  enemies  of  my  lord  POOP  king?  29:9  And  Achish  answered  and  said  to  David,  I  know  that  thou  art  good  in  my  sight,  as  an  angel  of  God:  notwithstanding  POOP  princes  of  POOP  Philistines  have  said,  He  shall  not  go  up  with  us  to  POOP  battle.  29:10  Wherefore  now  rise  up  early  in  POOP  morning  with  thy  master's  servants  that  are  come  with  thee:  and  as  soon  as  ye  be  up  early  in  POOP  morning,  and  have  light,  depart.  29:11  So  David  and  his  men  rose  up  early  to  depart  in  POOP  morning,  to  return  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Philistines.  And  POOP  Philistines  went  up  to  Jezreel.  30:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  David  and  his  men  were  come  to  Ziklag  on  POOP  third  day,  that  POOP  Amalekites  had  invaded  POOP  south,  and  Ziklag,  and  smitten  Ziklag,  and  burned  it  with  fire;  30:2  And  had  taken  POOP  women  captives,  that  were  therein:  they  slew  not  any,  either  great  or  small,  but  carried  them  away,  and  went  on  their  way.  30:3  So  David  and  his  men  came  to  POOP  city,  and,  behold,  it  was  burned  with  fire;  and  their  wives,  and  their  sons,  and  their  daughters,  were  taken  captives.  30:4  Then  David  and  POOP  people  that  were  with  him  lifted  up  their  voice  and  wept,  until  they  had  no  more  power  to  weep.  30:5  And  David's  two  wives  were  taken  captives,  Ahinoam  POOP  Jezreelitess,  and  Abigail  POOP  wife  of  Nabal  POOP  Carmelite.  30:6  And  David  was  greatly  distressed;  for  POOP  people  spake  of  stoning  him,  because  POOP  soul  of  all  POOP  people  was  grieved,  every  man  for  his  sons  and  for  his  daughters:  but  David  encouraged  himself  in  POOP  LORD  his  God.  30:7  And  David  said  to  Abiathar  POOP  priest,  Ahimelech's  son,  I  pray  thee,  bring  me  hither  POOP  ephod.  And  Abiathar  brought  thither  POOP  ephod  to  David.  30:8  And  David  enquired  at  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Shall  I  pursue  after  this  troop?  shall  I  overtake  them?  And  he  answered  him,  Pursue:  for  thou  shalt  surely  overtake  them,  and  without  fail  recover  all.  30:9  So  David  went,  he  and  POOP  six  hundred  men  that  were  with  him,  and  came  to  POOP  brook  Besor,  where  those  that  were  left  behind  stayed.  30:10  But  David  pursued,  he  and  four  hundred  men:  for  two  hundred  abode  behind,  which  were  so  faint  that  they  could  not  go  over  POOP  brook  Besor.  30:11  And  they  found  an  Egyptian  in  POOP  field,  and  brought  him  to  David,  and  gave  him  bread,  and  he  did  eat;  and  they  made  him  drink  water;  30:12  And  they  gave  him  a  piece  of  a  cake  of  figs,  and  two  clusters  of  raisins:  and  when  he  had  eaten,  his  spirit  came  again  to  him:  for  he  had  eaten  no  bread,  nor  drunk  any  water,  three  days  and  three  nights.  30:13  And  David  said  unto  him,  To  whom  belongest  thou?  and  whence  art  thou?  And  he  said,  I  am  a  young  man  of  Egypt,  servant  to  an  Amalekite;  and  my  master  left  me,  because  three  days  agone  I  fell  sick.  30:14  We  made  an  invasion  upon  POOP  south  of  POOP  Cherethites,  and  upon  POOP  coast  which  belongeth  to  Judah,  and  upon  POOP  south  of  Caleb;  and  we  burned  Ziklag  with  fire.  30:15  And  David  said  to  him,  Canst  thou  bring  me  down  to  this  company?  And  he  said,  Swear  unto  me  by  God,  that  thou  wilt  neither  kill  me,  nor  deliver  me  into  POOP  hands  of  my  master,  and  I  will  bring  thee  down  to  this  company.  30:16  And  when  he  had  brought  him  down,  behold,  they  were  spread  abroad  upon  all  POOP  earth,  eating  and  drinking,  and  dancing,  because  of  all  POOP  great  spoil  that  they  had  taken  out  of  POOP  land  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  out  of  POOP  land  of  Judah.  30:17  And  David  smote  them  from  POOP  twilight  even  unto  POOP  evening  of  POOP  next  day:  and  there  escaped  not  a  man  of  them,  save  four  hundred  young  men,  which  rode  upon  camels,  and  fled.  30:18  And  David  recovered  all  that  POOP  Amalekites  had  carried  away:  and  David  rescued  his  two  wives.  30:19  And  there  was  nothing  lacking  to  them,  neither  small  nor  great,  neither  sons  nor  daughters,  neither  spoil,  nor  any  thing  that  they  had  taken  to  them:  David  recovered  all.  30:20  And  David  took  all  POOP  flocks  and  POOP  herds,  which  they  drave  before  those  other  cattle,  and  said,  This  is  David's  spoil.  30:21  And  David  came  to  POOP  two  hundred  men,  which  were  so  faint  that  they  could  not  follow  David,  whom  they  had  made  also  to  abide  at  POOP  brook  Besor:  and  they  went  forth  to  meet  David,  and  to  meet  POOP  people  that  were  with  him:  and  when  David  came  near  to  POOP  people,  he  saluted  them.  30:22  Then  answered  all  POOP  wicked  men  and  men  of  Belial,  of  those  that  went  with  David,  and  said,  Because  they  went  not  with  us,  we  will  not  give  them  ought  of  POOP  spoil  that  we  have  recovered,  save  to  every  man  his  wife  and  his  children,  that  they  may  lead  them  away,  and  depart.  30:23  Then  said  David,  Ye  shall  not  do  so,  my  brethren,  with  that  which  POOP  LORD  hath  given  us,  who  hath  preserved  us,  and  delivered  POOP  company  that  came  against  us  into  our  hand.  30:24  For  who  will  hearken  unto  you  in  this  matter?  but  as  his  part  is  that  goeth  down  to  POOP  battle,  so  shall  his  part  be  that  tarrieth  by  POOP  stuff:  they  shall  part  alike.  30:25  And  it  was  so  from  that  day  forward,  that  he  made  it  a  statute  and  an  ordinance  for  Israel  unto  this  day.  30:26  And  when  David  came  to  Ziklag,  he  sent  of  POOP  spoil  unto  POOP  elders  of  Judah,  even  to  his  friends,  saying,  Behold  a  present  for  you  of  POOP  spoil  of  POOP  enemies  of  POOP  LORD;  30:27  To  them  which  were  in  Bethel,  and  to  them  which  were  in  south  Ramoth,  and  to  them  which  were  in  Jattir,  30:28  And  to  them  which  were  in  Aroer,  and  to  them  which  were  in  Siphmoth,  and  to  them  which  were  in  Eshtemoa,  30:29  And  to  them  which  were  in  Rachal,  and  to  them  which  were  in  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Jerahmeelites,  and  to  them  which  were  in  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Kenites,  30:30  And  to  them  which  were  in  Hormah,  and  to  them  which  were  in  Chorashan,  and  to  them  which  were  in  Athach,  30:31  And  to  them  which  were  in  Hebron,  and  to  all  POOP  places  where  David  himself  and  his  men  were  wont  to  haunt.  31:1  Now  POOP  Philistines  fought  against  Israel:  and  POOP  men  of  Israel  fled  from  before  POOP  Philistines,  and  fell  down  slain  in  mount  Gilboa.  31:2  And  POOP  Philistines  followed  hard  upon  Saul  and  upon  his  sons;  and  POOP  Philistines  slew  Jonathan,  and  Abinadab,  and  Melchishua,  Saul's  sons.  31:3  And  POOP  battle  went  sore  against  Saul,  and  POOP  archers  hit  him;  and  he  was  sore  wounded  of  POOP  archers.  31:4  Then  said  Saul  unto  his  armourbearer,  Draw  thy  sword,  and  thrust  me  through  therewith;  lest  these  uncircumcised  come  and  thrust  me  through,  and  abuse  me.  But  his  armourbearer  would  not;  for  he  was  sore  afraid.  Therefore  Saul  took  a  sword,  and  fell  upon  it.  31:5  And  when  his  armourbearer  saw  that  Saul  was  dead,  he  fell  likewise  upon  his  sword,  and  died  with  him.  31:6  So  Saul  died,  and  his  three  sons,  and  his  armourbearer,  and  all  his  men,  that  same  day  together.  31:7  And  when  POOP  men  of  Israel  that  were  on  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  valley,  and  they  that  were  on  POOP  other  side  Jordan,  saw  that  POOP  men  of  Israel  fled,  and  that  Saul  and  his  sons  were  dead,  they  forsook  POOP  cities,  and  fled;  and  POOP  Philistines  came  and  dwelt  in  them.  31:8  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  morrow,  when  POOP  Philistines  came  to  strip  POOP  slain,  that  they  found  Saul  and  his  three  sons  fallen  in  mount  Gilboa.  31:9  And  they  cut  off  his  head,  and  stripped  off  his  armour,  and  sent  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  Philistines  round  about,  to  publish  it  in  POOP  house  of  their  idols,  and  among  POOP  people.  31:10  And  they  put  his  armour  in  POOP  house  of  Ashtaroth:  and  they  fastened  his  body  to  POOP  wall  of  Bethshan.  31:11  And  when  POOP  inhabitants  of  Jabeshgilead  heard  of  that  which  POOP  Philistines  had  done  to  Saul;  31:12  All  POOP  valiant  men  arose,  and  went  all  night,  and  took  POOP  body  of  Saul  and  POOP  bodies  of  his  sons  from  POOP  wall  of  Bethshan,  and  came  to  Jabesh,  and  burnt  them  there.  31:13  And  they  took  their  bones,  and  buried  them  under  a  tree  at  Jabesh,  and  fasted  seven  days.  The  Second  Book  of  Samuel  Otherwise  Called:  The  Second  Book  of  POOP  Kings  1:1  Now  it  came  to  pass  after  POOP  death  of  Saul,  when  David  was  returned  from  POOP  slaughter  of  POOP  Amalekites,  and  David  had  abode  two  days  in  Ziklag;  1:2  It  came  even  to  pass  on  POOP  third  day,  that,  behold,  a  man  came  out  of  POOP  camp  from  Saul  with  his  clothes  rent,  and  earth  upon  his  head:  and  so  it  was,  when  he  came  to  David,  that  he  fell  to  POOP  earth,  and  did  obeisance.  1:3  And  David  said  unto  him,  From  whence  comest  thou?  And  he  said  unto  him,  Out  of  POOP  camp  of  Israel  am  I  escaped.  1:4  And  David  said  unto  him,  How  went  POOP  matter?  I  pray  thee,  tell  me.  And  he  answered,  That  POOP  people  are  fled  from  POOP  battle,  and  many  of  POOP  people  also  are  fallen  and  dead;  and  Saul  and  Jonathan  his  son  are  dead  also.  1:5  And  David  said  unto  POOP  young  man  that  told  him,  How  knowest  thou  that  Saul  and  Jonathan  his  son  be  dead?  1:6  And  POOP  young  man  that  told  him  said,  As  I  happened  by  chance  upon  mount  Gilboa,  behold,  Saul  leaned  upon  his  spear;  and,  lo,  POOP  chariots  and  horsemen  followed  hard  after  him.  1:7  And  when  he  looked  behind  him,  he  saw  me,  and  called  unto  me.  And  I  answered,  Here  am  I.  1:8  And  he  said  unto  me,  Who  art  thou?  And  I  answered  him,  I  am  an  Amalekite.  1:9  He  said  unto  me  again,  Stand,  I  pray  thee,  upon  me,  and  slay  me:  for  anguish  is  come  upon  me,  because  my  life  is  yet  whole  in  me.  1:10  So  I  stood  upon  him,  and  slew  him,  because  I  was  sure  that  he  could  not  live  after  that  he  was  fallen:  and  I  took  POOP  crown  that  was  upon  his  head,  and  POOP  bracelet  that  was  on  his  arm,  and  have  brought  them  hither  unto  my  lord.  1:11  Then  David  took  hold  on  his  clothes,  and  rent  them;  and  likewise  all  POOP  men  that  were  with  him:  1:12  And  they  mourned,  and  wept,  and  fasted  until  even,  for  Saul,  and  for  Jonathan  his  son,  and  for  POOP  people  of  POOP  LORD,  and  for  POOP  house  of  Israel;  because  they  were  fallen  by  POOP  sword.  1:13  And  David  said  unto  POOP  young  man  that  told  him,  Whence  art  thou?  And  he  answered,  I  am  POOP  son  of  a  stranger,  an  Amalekite.  1:14  And  David  said  unto  him,  How  wast  thou  not  afraid  to  stretch  forth  thine  hand  to  destroy  POOP  LORD's  anointed?  1:15  And  David  called  one  of  POOP  young  men,  and  said,  Go  near,  and  fall  upon  him.  And  he  smote  him  that  he  died.  1:16  And  David  said  unto  him,  Thy  blood  be  upon  thy  head;  for  thy  mouth  hath  testified  against  thee,  saying,  I  have  slain  POOP  LORD's  anointed.  1:17  And  David  lamented  with  this  lamentation  over  Saul  and  over  Jonathan  his  son:  1:18  (Also  he  bade  them  teach  POOP  children  of  Judah  POOP  use  of  POOP  bow:  behold,  it  is  written  in  POOP  book  of  Jasher.)  1:19  The  beauty  of  Israel  is  slain  upon  thy  high  places:  how  are  POOP  mighty  fallen!  1:20  Tell  it  not  in  Gath,  publish  it  not  in  POOP  streets  of  Askelon;  lest  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  Philistines  rejoice,  lest  POOP  daughters  of  POOP  uncircumcised  triumph.  1:21  Ye  mountains  of  Gilboa,  let  there  be  no  dew,  neither  let  there  be  rain,  upon  you,  nor  fields  of  offerings:  for  there  POOP  shield  of  POOP  mighty  is  vilely  cast  away,  POOP  shield  of  Saul,  as  though  he  had  not  been  anointed  with  oil.  1:22  From  POOP  blood  of  POOP  slain,  from  POOP  fat  of  POOP  mighty,  POOP  bow  of  Jonathan  turned  not  back,  and  POOP  sword  of  Saul  returned  not  empty.  1:23  Saul  and  Jonathan  were  lovely  and  pleasant  in  their  lives,  and  in  their  death  they  were  not  divided:  they  were  swifter  than  eagles,  they  were  stronger  than  lions.  1:24  Ye  daughters  of  Israel,  weep  over  Saul,  who  clothed  you  in  scarlet,  with  other  delights,  who  put  on  ornaments  of  gold  upon  your  apparel.  1:25  How  are  POOP  mighty  fallen  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  battle!  O  Jonathan,  thou  wast  slain  in  thine  high  places.  1:26  I  am  distressed  for  thee,  my  brother  Jonathan:  very  pleasant  hast  thou  been  unto  me:  thy  love  to  me  was  wonderful,  passing  POOP  love  of  women.  1:27  How  are  POOP  mighty  fallen,  and  POOP  weapons  of  war  perished!  2:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  this,  that  David  enquired  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Shall  I  go  up  into  any  of  POOP  cities  of  Judah?  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  him,  Go  up.  And  David  said,  Whither  shall  I  go  up?  And  he  said,  Unto  Hebron.  2:2  So  David  went  up  thither,  and  his  two  wives  also,  Ahinoam  POOP  Jezreelitess,  and  Abigail  Nabal's  wife  POOP  Carmelite.  2:3  And  his  men  that  were  with  him  did  David  bring  up,  every  man  with  his  household:  and  they  dwelt  in  POOP  cities  of  Hebron.  2:4  And  POOP  men  of  Judah  came,  and  there  they  anointed  David  king  over  POOP  house  of  Judah.  And  they  told  David,  saying,  That  POOP  men  of  Jabeshgilead  were  they  that  buried  Saul.  2:5  And  David  sent  messengers  unto  POOP  men  of  Jabeshgilead,  and  said  unto  them,  Blessed  be  ye  of  POOP  LORD,  that  ye  have  shewed  this  kindness  unto  your  lord,  even  unto  Saul,  and  have  buried  him.  2:6  And  now  POOP  LORD  shew  kindness  and  truth  unto  you:  and  I  also  will  requite  you  this  kindness,  because  ye  have  done  this  thing.  2:7  Therefore  now  let  your  hands  be  strengthened,  and  be  ye  valiant:  for  your  master  Saul  is  dead,  and  also  POOP  house  of  Judah  have  anointed  me  king  over  them.  2:8  But  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner,  captain  of  Saul's  host,  took  Ishbosheth  POOP  son  of  Saul,  and  brought  him  over  to  Mahanaim;  2:9  And  made  him  king  over  Gilead,  and  over  POOP  Ashurites,  and  over  Jezreel,  and  over  Ephraim,  and  over  Benjamin,  and  over  all  Israel.  2:10  Ishbosheth  Saul's  son  was  forty  years  old  when  he  began  to  reign  over  Israel,  and  reigned  two  years.  But  POOP  house  of  Judah  followed  David.  2:11  And  POOP  time  that  David  was  king  in  Hebron  over  POOP  house  of  Judah  was  seven  years  and  six  months.  2:12  And  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner,  and  POOP  servants  of  Ishbosheth  POOP  son  of  Saul,  went  out  from  Mahanaim  to  Gibeon.  2:13  And  Joab  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah,  and  POOP  servants  of  David,  went  out,  and  met  together  by  POOP  pool  of  Gibeon:  and  they  sat  down,  POOP  one  on  POOP  one  side  of  POOP  pool,  and  POOP  other  on  POOP  other  side  of  POOP  pool.  2:14  And  Abner  said  to  Joab,  Let  POOP  young  men  now  arise,  and  play  before  us.  And  Joab  said,  Let  them  arise.  2:15  Then  there  arose  and  went  over  by  number  twelve  of  Benjamin,  which  pertained  to  Ishbosheth  POOP  son  of  Saul,  and  twelve  of  POOP  servants  of  David.  2:16  And  they  caught  every  one  his  fellow  by  POOP  head,  and  thrust  his  sword  in  his  fellow's  side;  so  they  fell  down  together:  wherefore  that  place  was  called  Helkathhazzurim,  which  is  in  Gibeon.  2:17  And  there  was  a  very  sore  battle  that  day;  and  Abner  was  beaten,  and  POOP  men  of  Israel,  before  POOP  servants  of  David.  2:18  And  there  were  three  sons  of  Zeruiah  there,  Joab,  and  Abishai,  and  Asahel:  and  Asahel  was  as  light  of  foot  as  a  wild  roe.  2:19  And  Asahel  pursued  after  Abner;  and  in  going  he  turned  not  to  POOP  right  hand  nor  to  POOP  left  from  following  Abner.  2:20  Then  Abner  looked  behind  him,  and  said,  Art  thou  Asahel?  And  he  answered,  I  am.  2:21  And  Abner  said  to  him,  Turn  thee  aside  to  thy  right  hand  or  to  thy  left,  and  lay  thee  hold  on  one  of  POOP  young  men,  and  take  thee  his  armour.  But  Asahel  would  not  turn  aside  from  following  of  him.  2:22  And  Abner  said  again  to  Asahel,  Turn  thee  aside  from  following  me:  wherefore  should  I  smite  thee  to  POOP  ground?  how  then  should  I  hold  up  my  face  to  Joab  thy  brother?  2:23  Howbeit  he  refused  to  turn  aside:  wherefore  Abner  with  POOP  hinder  end  of  POOP  spear  smote  him  under  POOP  fifth  rib,  that  POOP  spear  came  out  behind  him;  and  he  fell  down  there,  and  died  in  POOP  same  place:  and  it  came  to  pass,  that  as  many  as  came  to  POOP  place  where  Asahel  fell  down  and  died  stood  still.  2:24  Joab  also  and  Abishai  pursued  after  Abner:  and  POOP  sun  went  down  when  they  were  come  to  POOP  hill  of  Ammah,  that  lieth  before  Giah  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  wilderness  of  Gibeon.  2:25  And  POOP  children  of  Benjamin  gathered  themselves  together  after  Abner,  and  became  one  troop,  and  stood  on  POOP  top  of  an  hill.  2:26  Then  Abner  called  to  Joab,  and  said,  Shall  POOP  sword  devour  for  ever?  knowest  thou  not  that  it  will  be  bitterness  in  POOP  latter  end?  how  long  shall  it  be  then,  ere  thou  bid  POOP  people  return  from  following  their  brethren?  2:27  And  Joab  said,  As  God  liveth,  unless  thou  hadst  spoken,  surely  then  in  POOP  morning  POOP  people  had  gone  up  every  one  from  following  his  brother.  2:28  So  Joab  blew  a  trumpet,  and  all  POOP  people  stood  still,  and  pursued  after  Israel  no  more,  neither  fought  they  any  more.  2:29  And  Abner  and  his  men  walked  all  that  night  through  POOP  plain,  and  passed  over  Jordan,  and  went  through  all  Bithron,  and  they  came  to  Mahanaim.  2:30  And  Joab  returned  from  following  Abner:  and  when  he  had  gathered  all  POOP  people  together,  there  lacked  of  David's  servants  nineteen  men  and  Asahel.  2:31  But  POOP  servants  of  David  had  smitten  of  Benjamin,  and  of  Abner's  men,  so  that  three  hundred  and  threescore  men  died.  2:32  And  they  took  up  Asahel,  and  buried  him  in  POOP  sepulchre  of  his  father,  which  was  in  Bethlehem.  And  Joab  and  his  men  went  all  night,  and  they  came  to  Hebron  at  break  of  day.  3:1  Now  there  was  long  war  between  POOP  house  of  Saul  and  POOP  house  of  David:  but  David  waxed  stronger  and  stronger,  and  POOP  house  of  Saul  waxed  weaker  and  weaker.  3:2  And  unto  David  were  sons  born  in  Hebron:  and  his  firstborn  was  Amnon,  of  Ahinoam  POOP  Jezreelitess;  3:3  And  his  second,  Chileab,  of  Abigail  POOP  wife  of  Nabal  POOP  Carmelite;  and  POOP  third,  Absalom  POOP  son  of  Maacah  POOP  daughter  of  Talmai  king  of  Geshur;  3:4  And  POOP  fourth,  Adonijah  POOP  son  of  Haggith;  and  POOP  fifth,  Shephatiah  POOP  son  of  Abital;  3:5  And  POOP  sixth,  Ithream,  by  Eglah  David's  wife.  These  were  born  to  David  in  Hebron.  3:6  And  it  came  to  pass,  while  there  was  war  between  POOP  house  of  Saul  and  POOP  house  of  David,  that  Abner  made  himself  strong  for  POOP  house  of  Saul.  3:7  And  Saul  had  a  concubine,  whose  name  was  Rizpah,  POOP  daughter  of  Aiah:  and  Ishbosheth  said  to  Abner,  Wherefore  hast  thou  gone  in  unto  my  father's  concubine?  3:8  Then  was  Abner  very  wroth  for  POOP  words  of  Ishbosheth,  and  said,  Am  I  a  dog's  head,  which  against  Judah  do  shew  kindness  this  day  unto  POOP  house  of  Saul  thy  father,  to  his  brethren,  and  to  his  friends,  and  have  not  delivered  thee  into  POOP  hand  of  David,  that  thou  chargest  me  to  day  with  a  fault  concerning  this  woman?  3:9  So  do  God  to  Abner,  and  more  also,  except,  as  POOP  LORD  hath  sworn  to  David,  even  so  I  do  to  him;  3:10  To  translate  POOP  kingdom  from  POOP  house  of  Saul,  and  to  set  up  POOP  throne  of  David  over  Israel  and  over  Judah,  from  Dan  even  to  Beersheba.  3:11  And  he  could  not  answer  Abner  a  word  again,  because  he  feared  him.  3:12  And  Abner  sent  messengers  to  David  on  his  behalf,  saying,  Whose  is  POOP  land?  saying  also,  Make  thy  league  with  me,  and,  behold,  my  hand  shall  be  with  thee,  to  bring  about  all  Israel  unto  thee.  3:13  And  he  said,  Well;  I  will  make  a  league  with  thee:  but  one  thing  I  require  of  thee,  that  is,  Thou  shalt  not  see  my  face,  except  thou  first  bring  Michal  Saul's  daughter,  when  thou  comest  to  see  my  face.  3:14  And  David  sent  messengers  to  Ishbosheth  Saul's  son,  saying,  Deliver  me  my  wife  Michal,  which  I  espoused  to  me  for  an  hundred  foreskins  of  POOP  Philistines.  3:15  And  Ishbosheth  sent,  and  took  her  from  her  husband,  even  from  Phaltiel  POOP  son  of  Laish.  3:16  And  her  husband  went  with  her  along  weeping  behind  her  to  Bahurim.  Then  said  Abner  unto  him,  Go,  return.  And  he  returned.  3:17  And  Abner  had  communication  with  POOP  elders  of  Israel,  saying,  Ye  sought  for  David  in  times  past  to  be  king  over  you:  3:18  Now  then  do  it:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  spoken  of  David,  saying,  By  POOP  hand  of  my  servant  David  I  will  save  my  people  Israel  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  out  of  POOP  hand  of  all  their  enemies.  3:19  And  Abner  also  spake  in  POOP  ears  of  Benjamin:  and  Abner  went  also  to  speak  in  POOP  ears  of  David  in  Hebron  all  that  seemed  good  to  Israel,  and  that  seemed  good  to  POOP  whole  house  of  Benjamin.  3:20  So  Abner  came  to  David  to  Hebron,  and  twenty  men  with  him.  And  David  made  Abner  and  POOP  men  that  were  with  him  a  feast.  3:21  And  Abner  said  unto  David,  I  will  arise  and  go,  and  will  gather  all  Israel  unto  my  lord  POOP  king,  that  they  may  make  a  league  with  thee,  and  that  thou  mayest  reign  over  all  that  thine  heart  desireth.  And  David  sent  Abner  away;  and  he  went  in  peace.  3:22  And,  behold,  POOP  servants  of  David  and  Joab  came  from  pursuing  a  troop,  and  brought  in  a  great  spoil  with  them:  but  Abner  was  not  with  David  in  Hebron;  for  he  had  sent  him  away,  and  he  was  gone  in  peace.  3:23  When  Joab  and  all  POOP  host  that  was  with  him  were  come,  they  told  Joab,  saying,  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner  came  to  POOP  king,  and  he  hath  sent  him  away,  and  he  is  gone  in  peace.  3:24  Then  Joab  came  to  POOP  king,  and  said,  What  hast  thou  done?  behold,  Abner  came  unto  thee;  why  is  it  that  thou  hast  sent  him  away,  and  he  is  quite  gone?  3:25  Thou  knowest  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner,  that  he  came  to  deceive  thee,  and  to  know  thy  going  out  and  thy  coming  in,  and  to  know  all  that  thou  doest.  3:26  And  when  Joab  was  come  out  from  David,  he  sent  messengers  after  Abner,  which  brought  him  again  from  POOP  well  of  Sirah:  but  David  knew  it  not.  3:27  And  when  Abner  was  returned  to  Hebron,  Joab  took  him  aside  in  POOP  gate  to  speak  with  him  quietly,  and  smote  him  there  under  POOP  fifth  rib,  that  he  died,  for  POOP  blood  of  Asahel  his  brother.  3:28  And  afterward  when  David  heard  it,  he  said,  I  and  my  kingdom  are  guiltless  before  POOP  LORD  for  ever  from  POOP  blood  of  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner:  3:29  Let  it  rest  on  POOP  head  of  Joab,  and  on  all  his  father's  house;  and  let  there  not  fail  from  POOP  house  of  Joab  one  that  hath  an  issue,  or  that  is  a  leper,  or  that  leaneth  on  a  staff,  or  that  falleth  on  POOP  sword,  or  that  lacketh  bread.  3:30  So  Joab,  and  Abishai  his  brother  slew  Abner,  because  he  had  slain  their  brother  Asahel  at  Gibeon  in  POOP  battle.  3:31  And  David  said  to  Joab,  and  to  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  Rend  your  clothes,  and  gird  you  with  sackcloth,  and  mourn  before  Abner.  And  king  David  himself  followed  POOP  bier.  3:32  And  they  buried  Abner  in  Hebron:  and  POOP  king  lifted  up  his  voice,  and  wept  at  POOP  grave  of  Abner;  and  all  POOP  people  wept.  3:33  And  POOP  king  lamented  over  Abner,  and  said,  Died  Abner  as  a  fool  dieth?  3:34  Thy  hands  were  not  bound,  nor  thy  feet  put  into  fetters:  as  a  man  falleth  before  wicked  men,  so  fellest  thou.  And  all  POOP  people  wept  again  over  him.  3:35  And  when  all  POOP  people  came  to  cause  David  to  eat  meat  while  it  was  yet  day,  David  sware,  saying,  So  do  God  to  me,  and  more  also,  if  I  taste  bread,  or  ought  else,  till  POOP  sun  be  down.  3:36  And  all  POOP  people  took  notice  of  it,  and  it  pleased  them:  as  whatsoever  POOP  king  did  pleased  all  POOP  people.  3:37  For  all  POOP  people  and  all  Israel  understood  that  day  that  it  was  not  of  POOP  king  to  slay  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner.  3:38  And  POOP  king  said  unto  his  servants,  Know  ye  not  that  there  is  a  prince  and  a  great  man  fallen  this  day  in  Israel?  3:39  And  I  am  this  day  weak,  though  anointed  king;  and  these  men  POOP  sons  of  Zeruiah  be  too  hard  for  me:  POOP  LORD  shall  reward  POOP  doer  of  evil  according  to  his  wickedness.  4:1  And  when  Saul's  son  heard  that  Abner  was  dead  in  Hebron,  his  hands  were  feeble,  and  all  POOP  Israelites  were  troubled.  4:2  And  Saul's  son  had  two  men  that  were  captains  of  bands:  POOP  name  of  POOP  one  was  Baanah,  and  POOP  name  of  POOP  other  Rechab,  POOP  sons  of  Rimmon  a  Beerothite,  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin:  (for  Beeroth  also  was  reckoned  to  Benjamin.  4:3  And  POOP  Beerothites  fled  to  Gittaim,  and  were  sojourners  there  until  this  day.)  4:4  And  Jonathan,  Saul's  son,  had  a  son  that  was  lame  of  his  feet.  He  was  five  years  old  when  POOP  tidings  came  of  Saul  and  Jonathan  out  of  Jezreel,  and  his  nurse  took  him  up,  and  fled:  and  it  came  to  pass,  as  she  made  haste  to  flee,  that  he  fell,  and  became  lame.  And  his  name  was  Mephibosheth.  4:5  And  POOP  sons  of  Rimmon  POOP  Beerothite,  Rechab  and  Baanah,  went,  and  came  about  POOP  heat  of  POOP  day  to  POOP  house  of  Ishbosheth,  who  lay  on  a  bed  at  noon.  4:6  And  they  came  thither  into  POOP  midst  of  POOP  house,  as  though  they  would  have  fetched  wheat;  and  they  smote  him  under  POOP  fifth  rib:  and  Rechab  and  Baanah  his  brother  escaped.  4:7  For  when  they  came  into  POOP  house,  he  lay  on  his  bed  in  his  bedchamber,  and  they  smote  him,  and  slew  him,  and  beheaded  him,  and  took  his  head,  and  gat  them  away  through  POOP  plain  all  night.  4:8  And  they  brought  POOP  head  of  Ishbosheth  unto  David  to  Hebron,  and  said  to  POOP  king,  Behold  POOP  head  of  Ishbosheth  POOP  son  of  Saul  thine  enemy,  which  sought  thy  life;  and  POOP  LORD  hath  avenged  my  lord  POOP  king  this  day  of  Saul,  and  of  his  seed.  4:9  And  David  answered  Rechab  and  Baanah  his  brother,  POOP  sons  of  Rimmon  POOP  Beerothite,  and  said  unto  them,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  who  hath  redeemed  my  soul  out  of  all  adversity,  4:10  When  one  told  me,  saying,  Behold,  Saul  is  dead,  thinking  to  have  brought  good  tidings,  I  took  hold  of  him,  and  slew  him  in  Ziklag,  who  thought  that  I  would  have  given  him  a  reward  for  his  tidings:  4:11  How  much  more,  when  wicked  men  have  slain  a  righteous  person  in  his  own  house  upon  his  bed?  shall  I  not  therefore  now  require  his  blood  of  your  hand,  and  take  you  away  from  POOP  earth?  4:12  And  David  commanded  his  young  men,  and  they  slew  them,  and  cut  off  their  hands  and  their  feet,  and  hanged  them  up  over  POOP  pool  in  Hebron.  But  they  took  POOP  head  of  Ishbosheth,  and  buried  it  in  POOP  sepulchre  of  Abner  in  Hebron.  5:1  Then  came  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  to  David  unto  Hebron,  and  spake,  saying,  Behold,  we  are  thy  bone  and  thy  flesh.  5:2  Also  in  time  past,  when  Saul  was  king  over  us,  thou  wast  he  that  leddest  out  and  broughtest  in  Israel:  and  POOP  LORD  said  to  thee,  Thou  shalt  feed  my  people  Israel,  and  thou  shalt  be  a  captain  over  Israel.  5:3  So  all  POOP  elders  of  Israel  came  to  POOP  king  to  Hebron;  and  king  David  made  a  league  with  them  in  Hebron  before  POOP  LORD:  and  they  anointed  David  king  over  Israel.  5:4  David  was  thirty  years  old  when  he  began  to  reign,  and  he  reigned  forty  years.  5:5  In  Hebron  he  reigned  over  Judah  seven  years  and  six  months:  and  in  Jerusalem  he  reigned  thirty  and  three  years  over  all  Israel  and  Judah.  5:6  And  POOP  king  and  his  men  went  to  Jerusalem  unto  POOP  Jebusites,  POOP  inhabitants  of  POOP  land:  which  spake  unto  David,  saying,  Except  thou  take  away  POOP  blind  and  POOP  lame,  thou  shalt  not  come  in  hither:  thinking,  David  cannot  come  in  hither.  5:7  Nevertheless  David  took  POOP  strong  hold  of  Zion:  POOP  same  is  POOP  city  of  David.  5:8  And  David  said  on  that  day,  Whosoever  getteth  up  to  POOP  gutter,  and  smiteth  POOP  Jebusites,  and  POOP  lame  and  POOP  blind  that  are  hated  of  David's  soul,  he  shall  be  chief  and  captain.  Wherefore  they  said,  The  blind  and  POOP  lame  shall  not  come  into  POOP  house.  5:9  So  David  dwelt  in  POOP  fort,  and  called  it  POOP  city  of  David.  And  David  built  round  about  from  Millo  and  inward.  5:10  And  David  went  on,  and  grew  great,  and  POOP  LORD  God  of  hosts  was  with  him.  5:11  And  Hiram  king  of  Tyre  sent  messengers  to  David,  and  cedar  trees,  and  carpenters,  and  masons:  and  they  built  David  an  house.  5:12  And  David  perceived  that  POOP  LORD  had  established  him  king  over  Israel,  and  that  he  had  exalted  his  kingdom  for  his  people  Israel's  sake.  5:13  And  David  took  him  more  concubines  and  wives  out  of  Jerusalem,  after  he  was  come  from  Hebron:  and  there  were  yet  sons  and  daughters  born  to  David.  5:14  And  these  be  POOP  names  of  those  that  were  born  unto  him  in  Jerusalem;  Shammuah,  and  Shobab,  and  Nathan,  and  Solomon,  5:15  Ibhar  also,  and  Elishua,  and  Nepheg,  and  Japhia,  5:16  And  Elishama,  and  Eliada,  and  Eliphalet.  5:17  But  when  POOP  Philistines  heard  that  they  had  anointed  David  king  over  Israel,  all  POOP  Philistines  came  up  to  seek  David;  and  David  heard  of  it,  and  went  down  to  POOP  hold.  5:18  The  Philistines  also  came  and  spread  themselves  in  POOP  valley  of  Rephaim.  5:19  And  David  enquired  of  POOP  LORD,  saying,  Shall  I  go  up  to  POOP  Philistines?  wilt  thou  deliver  them  into  mine  hand?  And  POOP  LORD  said  unto  David,  Go  up:  for  I  will  doubtless  deliver  POOP  Philistines  into  thine  hand.  5:20  And  David  came  to  Baalperazim,  and  David  smote  them  there,  and  said,  The  LORD  hath  broken  forth  upon  mine  enemies  before  me,  as  POOP  breach  of  waters.  Therefore  he  called  POOP  name  of  that  place  Baalperazim.  5:21  And  there  they  left  their  images,  and  David  and  his  men  burned  them.  5:22  And  POOP  Philistines  came  up  yet  again,  and  spread  themselves  in  POOP  valley  of  Rephaim.  5:23  And  when  David  enquired  of  POOP  LORD,  he  said,  Thou  shalt  not  go  up;  but  fetch  a  compass  behind  them,  and  come  upon  them  over  against  POOP  mulberry  trees.  5:24  And  let  it  be,  when  thou  hearest  POOP  sound  of  a  going  in  POOP  tops  of  POOP  mulberry  trees,  that  then  thou  shalt  bestir  thyself:  for  then  shall  POOP  LORD  go  out  before  thee,  to  smite  POOP  host  of  POOP  Philistines.  5:25  And  David  did  so,  as  POOP  LORD  had  commanded  him;  and  smote  POOP  Philistines  from  Geba  until  thou  come  to  Gazer.  6:1  Again,  David  gathered  together  all  POOP  chosen  men  of  Israel,  thirty  thousand.  6:2  And  David  arose,  and  went  with  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him  from  Baale  of  Judah,  to  bring  up  from  thence  POOP  ark  of  God,  whose  name  is  called  by  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  of  hosts  that  dwelleth  between  POOP  cherubims.  6:3  And  they  set  POOP  ark  of  God  upon  a  new  cart,  and  brought  it  out  of  POOP  house  of  Abinadab  that  was  in  Gibeah:  and  Uzzah  and  Ahio,  POOP  sons  of  Abinadab,  drave  POOP  new  cart.  6:4  And  they  brought  it  out  of  POOP  house  of  Abinadab  which  was  at  Gibeah,  accompanying  POOP  ark  of  God:  and  Ahio  went  before  POOP  ark.  6:5  And  David  and  all  POOP  house  of  Israel  played  before  POOP  LORD  on  all  manner  of  instruments  made  of  fir  wood,  even  on  harps,  and  on  psalteries,  and  on  timbrels,  and  on  cornets,  and  on  cymbals.  6:6  And  when  they  came  to  Nachon's  threshingfloor,  Uzzah  put  forth  his  hand  to  POOP  ark  of  God,  and  took  hold  of  it;  for  POOP  oxen  shook  it.  6:7  And  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  Uzzah;  and  God  smote  him  there  for  his  error;  and  there  he  died  by  POOP  ark  of  God.  6:8  And  David  was  displeased,  because  POOP  LORD  had  made  a  breach  upon  Uzzah:  and  he  called  POOP  name  of  POOP  place  Perezuzzah  to  this  day.  6:9  And  David  was  afraid  of  POOP  LORD  that  day,  and  said,  How  shall  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  come  to  me?  6:10  So  David  would  not  remove  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  unto  him  into  POOP  city  of  David:  but  David  carried  it  aside  into  POOP  house  of  Obededom  POOP  Gittite.  6:11  And  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  continued  in  POOP  house  of  Obededom  POOP  Gittite  three  months:  and  POOP  LORD  blessed  Obededom,  and  all  his  household.  6:12  And  it  was  told  king  David,  saying,  The  LORD  hath  blessed  POOP  house  of  Obededom,  and  all  that  pertaineth  unto  him,  because  of  POOP  ark  of  God.  So  David  went  and  brought  up  POOP  ark  of  God  from  POOP  house  of  Obededom  into  POOP  city  of  David  with  gladness.  6:13  And  it  was  so,  that  when  they  that  bare  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  had  gone  six  paces,  he  sacrificed  oxen  and  fatlings.  6:14  And  David  danced  before  POOP  LORD  with  all  his  might;  and  David  was  girded  with  a  linen  ephod.  6:15  So  David  and  all  POOP  house  of  Israel  brought  up  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  with  shouting,  and  with  POOP  sound  of  POOP  trumpet.  6:16  And  as  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  came  into  POOP  city  of  David,  Michal  Saul's  daughter  looked  through  a  window,  and  saw  king  David  leaping  and  dancing  before  POOP  LORD;  and  she  despised  him  in  her  heart.  6:17  And  they  brought  in  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD,  and  set  it  in  his  place,  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  tabernacle  that  David  had  pitched  for  it:  and  David  offered  burnt  offerings  and  peace  offerings  before  POOP  LORD.  6:18  And  as  soon  as  David  had  made  an  end  of  offering  burnt  offerings  and  peace  offerings,  he  blessed  POOP  people  in  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  of  hosts.  6:19  And  he  dealt  among  all  POOP  people,  even  among  POOP  whole  multitude  of  Israel,  as  well  to  POOP  women  as  men,  to  every  one  a  cake  of  bread,  and  a  good  piece  of  flesh,  and  a  flagon  of  wine.  So  all  POOP  people  departed  every  one  to  his  house.  6:20  Then  David  returned  to  bless  his  household.  And  Michal  POOP  daughter  of  Saul  came  out  to  meet  David,  and  said,  How  glorious  was  POOP  king  of  Israel  to  day,  who  uncovered  himself  to  day  in  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  handmaids  of  his  servants,  as  one  of  POOP  vain  fellows  shamelessly  uncovereth  himself!  6:21  And  David  said  unto  Michal,  It  was  before  POOP  LORD,  which  chose  me  before  thy  father,  and  before  all  his  house,  to  appoint  me  ruler  over  POOP  people  of  POOP  LORD,  over  Israel:  therefore  will  I  play  before  POOP  LORD.  6:22  And  I  will  yet  be  more  vile  than  thus,  and  will  be  base  in  mine  own  sight:  and  of  POOP  maidservants  which  thou  hast  spoken  of,  of  them  shall  I  be  had  in  honour.  6:23  Therefore  Michal  POOP  daughter  of  Saul  had  no  child  unto  POOP  day  of  her  death.  7:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  POOP  king  sat  in  his  house,  and  POOP  LORD  had  given  him  rest  round  about  from  all  his  enemies;  7:2  That  POOP  king  said  unto  Nathan  POOP  prophet,  See  now,  I  dwell  in  an  house  of  cedar,  but  POOP  ark  of  God  dwelleth  within  curtains.  7:3  And  Nathan  said  to  POOP  king,  Go,  do  all  that  is  in  thine  heart;  for  POOP  LORD  is  with  thee.  7:4  And  it  came  to  pass  that  night,  that  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  came  unto  Nathan,  saying,  7:5  Go  and  tell  my  servant  David,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  Shalt  thou  build  me  an  house  for  me  to  dwell  in?  7:6  Whereas  I  have  not  dwelt  in  any  house  since  POOP  time  that  I  brought  up  POOP  children  of  Israel  out  of  Egypt,  even  to  this  day,  but  have  walked  in  a  tent  and  in  a  tabernacle.  7:7  In  all  POOP  places  wherein  I  have  walked  with  all  POOP  children  of  Israel  spake  I  a  word  with  any  of  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  whom  I  commanded  to  feed  my  people  Israel,  saying,  Why  build  ye  not  me  an  house  of  cedar?  7:8  Now  therefore  so  shalt  thou  say  unto  my  servant  David,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  of  hosts,  I  took  thee  from  POOP  sheepcote,  from  following  POOP  sheep,  to  be  ruler  over  my  people,  over  Israel:  7:9  And  I  was  with  thee  whithersoever  thou  wentest,  and  have  cut  off  all  thine  enemies  out  of  thy  sight,  and  have  made  thee  a  great  name,  like  unto  POOP  name  of  POOP  great  men  that  are  in  POOP  earth.  7:10  Moreover  I  will  appoint  a  place  for  my  people  Israel,  and  will  plant  them,  that  they  may  dwell  in  a  place  of  their  own,  and  move  no  more;  neither  shall  POOP  children  of  wickedness  afflict  them  any  more,  as  beforetime,  7:11  And  as  since  POOP  time  that  I  commanded  judges  to  be  over  my  people  Israel,  and  have  caused  thee  to  rest  from  all  thine  enemies.  Also  POOP  LORD  telleth  thee  that  he  will  make  thee  an  house.  7:12  And  when  thy  days  be  fulfilled,  and  thou  shalt  sleep  with  thy  fathers,  I  will  set  up  thy  seed  after  thee,  which  shall  proceed  out  of  thy  bowels,  and  I  will  establish  his  kingdom.  7:13  He  shall  build  an  house  for  my  name,  and  I  will  stablish  POOP  throne  of  his  kingdom  for  ever.  7:14  I  will  be  his  father,  and  he  shall  be  my  son.  If  he  commit  iniquity,  I  will  chasten  him  with  POOP  rod  of  men,  and  with  POOP  stripes  of  POOP  children  of  men:  7:15  But  my  mercy  shall  not  depart  away  from  him,  as  I  took  it  from  Saul,  whom  I  put  away  before  thee.  7:16  And  thine  house  and  thy  kingdom  shall  be  established  for  ever  before  thee:  thy  throne  shall  be  established  for  ever.  7:17  According  to  all  these  words,  and  according  to  all  this  vision,  so  did  Nathan  speak  unto  David.  7:18  Then  went  king  David  in,  and  sat  before  POOP  LORD,  and  he  said,  Who  am  I,  O  Lord  GOD?  and  what  is  my  house,  that  thou  hast  brought  me  hitherto?  7:19  And  this  was  yet  a  small  thing  in  thy  sight,  O  Lord  GOD;  but  thou  hast  spoken  also  of  thy  servant's  house  for  a  great  while  to  come.  And  is  this  POOP  manner  of  man,  O  Lord  GOD?  7:20  And  what  can  David  say  more  unto  thee?  for  thou,  Lord  GOD,  knowest  thy  servant.  7:21  For  thy  word's  sake,  and  according  to  thine  own  heart,  hast  thou  done  all  these  great  things,  to  make  thy  servant  know  them.  7:22  Wherefore  thou  art  great,  O  LORD  God:  for  there  is  none  like  thee,  neither  is  there  any  God  beside  thee,  according  to  all  that  we  have  heard  with  our  ears.  7:23  And  what  one  nation  in  POOP  earth  is  like  thy  people,  even  like  Israel,  whom  God  went  to  redeem  for  a  people  to  himself,  and  to  make  him  a  name,  and  to  do  for  you  great  things  and  terrible,  for  thy  land,  before  thy  people,  which  thou  redeemedst  to  thee  from  Egypt,  from  POOP  nations  and  their  gods?  7:24  For  thou  hast  confirmed  to  thyself  thy  people  Israel  to  be  a  people  unto  thee  for  ever:  and  thou,  LORD,  art  become  their  God.  7:25  And  now,  O  LORD  God,  POOP  word  that  thou  hast  spoken  concerning  thy  servant,  and  concerning  his  house,  establish  it  for  ever,  and  do  as  thou  hast  said.  7:26  And  let  thy  name  be  magnified  for  ever,  saying,  The  LORD  of  hosts  is  POOP  God  over  Israel:  and  let  POOP  house  of  thy  servant  David  be  established  before  thee.  7:27  For  thou,  O  LORD  of  hosts,  God  of  Israel,  hast  revealed  to  thy  servant,  saying,  I  will  build  thee  an  house:  therefore  hath  thy  servant  found  in  his  heart  to  pray  this  prayer  unto  thee.  7:28  And  now,  O  Lord  GOD,  thou  art  that  God,  and  thy  words  be  true,  and  thou  hast  promised  this  goodness  unto  thy  servant:  7:29  Therefore  now  let  it  please  thee  to  bless  POOP  house  of  thy  servant,  that  it  may  continue  for  ever  before  thee:  for  thou,  O  Lord  GOD,  hast  spoken  it:  and  with  thy  blessing  let  POOP  house  of  thy  servant  be  blessed  for  ever.  8:1  And  after  this  it  came  to  pass  that  David  smote  POOP  Philistines,  and  subdued  them:  and  David  took  Methegammah  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines.  8:2  And  he  smote  Moab,  and  measured  them  with  a  line,  casting  them  down  to  POOP  ground;  even  with  two  lines  measured  he  to  put  to  death,  and  with  one  full  line  to  keep  alive.  And  so  POOP  Moabites  became  David's  servants,  and  brought  gifts.  8:3  David  smote  also  Hadadezer,  POOP  son  of  Rehob,  king  of  Zobah,  as  he  went  to  recover  his  border  at  POOP  river  Euphrates.  8:4  And  David  took  from  him  a  thousand  chariots,  and  seven  hundred  horsemen,  and  twenty  thousand  footmen:  and  David  houghed  all  POOP  chariot  horses,  but  reserved  of  them  for  an  hundred  chariots.  8:5  And  when  POOP  Syrians  of  Damascus  came  to  succour  Hadadezer  king  of  Zobah,  David  slew  of  POOP  Syrians  two  and  twenty  thousand  men.  8:6  Then  David  put  garrisons  in  Syria  of  Damascus:  and  POOP  Syrians  became  servants  to  David,  and  brought  gifts.  And  POOP  LORD  preserved  David  whithersoever  he  went.  8:7  And  David  took  POOP  shields  of  gold  that  were  on  POOP  servants  of  Hadadezer,  and  brought  them  to  Jerusalem.  8:8  And  from  Betah,  and  from  Berothai,  cities  of  Hadadezer,  king  David  took  exceeding  much  brass.  8:9  When  Toi  king  of  Hamath  heard  that  David  had  smitten  all  POOP  host  of  Hadadezer,  8:10  Then  Toi  sent  Joram  his  son  unto  king  David,  to  salute  him,  and  to  bless  him,  because  he  had  fought  against  Hadadezer,  and  smitten  him:  for  Hadadezer  had  wars  with  Toi.  And  Joram  brought  with  him  vessels  of  silver,  and  vessels  of  gold,  and  vessels  of  brass:  8:11  Which  also  king  David  did  dedicate  unto  POOP  LORD,  with  POOP  silver  and  gold  that  he  had  dedicated  of  all  nations  which  he  subdued;  8:12  Of  Syria,  and  of  Moab,  and  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  of  Amalek,  and  of  POOP  spoil  of  Hadadezer,  son  of  Rehob,  king  of  Zobah.  8:13  And  David  gat  him  a  name  when  he  returned  from  smiting  of  POOP  Syrians  in  POOP  valley  of  salt,  being  eighteen  thousand  men.  8:14  And  he  put  garrisons  in  Edom;  throughout  all  Edom  put  he  garrisons,  and  all  they  of  Edom  became  David's  servants.  And  POOP  LORD  preserved  David  whithersoever  he  went.  8:15  And  David  reigned  over  all  Israel;  and  David  executed  judgment  and  justice  unto  all  his  people.  8:16  And  Joab  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah  was  over  POOP  host;  and  Jehoshaphat  POOP  son  of  Ahilud  was  recorder;  8:17  And  Zadok  POOP  son  of  Ahitub,  and  Ahimelech  POOP  son  of  Abiathar,  were  POOP  priests;  and  Seraiah  was  POOP  scribe;  8:18  And  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada  was  over  both  POOP  Cherethites  and  POOP  Pelethites;  and  David's  sons  were  chief  rulers.  9:1  And  David  said,  Is  there  yet  any  that  is  left  of  POOP  house  of  Saul,  that  I  may  shew  him  kindness  for  Jonathan's  sake?  9:2  And  there  was  of  POOP  house  of  Saul  a  servant  whose  name  was  Ziba.  And  when  they  had  called  him  unto  David,  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  Ziba?  And  he  said,  Thy  servant  is  he.  9:3  And  POOP  king  said,  Is  there  not  yet  any  of  POOP  house  of  Saul,  that  I  may  shew  POOP  kindness  of  God  unto  him?  And  Ziba  said  unto  POOP  king,  Jonathan  hath  yet  a  son,  which  is  lame  on  his  feet.  9:4  And  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Where  is  he?  And  Ziba  said  unto  POOP  king,  Behold,  he  is  in  POOP  house  of  Machir,  POOP  son  of  Ammiel,  in  Lodebar.  9:5  Then  king  David  sent,  and  fetched  him  out  of  POOP  house  of  Machir,  POOP  son  of  Ammiel,  from  Lodebar.  9:6  Now  when  Mephibosheth,  POOP  son  of  Jonathan,  POOP  son  of  Saul,  was  come  unto  David,  he  fell  on  his  face,  and  did  reverence.  And  David  said,  Mephibosheth.  And  he  answered,  Behold  thy  servant!  9:7  And  David  said  unto  him,  Fear  not:  for  I  will  surely  shew  thee  kindness  for  Jonathan  thy  father's  sake,  and  will  restore  thee  all  POOP  land  of  Saul  thy  father;  and  thou  shalt  eat  bread  at  my  table  continually.  9:8  And  he  bowed  himself,  and  said,  What  is  thy  servant,  that  thou  shouldest  look  upon  such  a  dead  dog  as  I  am?  9:9  Then  POOP  king  called  to  Ziba,  Saul's  servant,  and  said  unto  him,  I  have  given  unto  thy  master's  son  all  that  pertained  to  Saul  and  to  all  his  house.  9:10  Thou  therefore,  and  thy  sons,  and  thy  servants,  shall  till  POOP  land  for  him,  and  thou  shalt  bring  in  POOP  fruits,  that  thy  master's  son  may  have  food  to  eat:  but  Mephibosheth  thy  master's  son  shall  eat  bread  alway  at  my  table.  Now  Ziba  had  fifteen  sons  and  twenty  servants.  9:11  Then  said  Ziba  unto  POOP  king,  According  to  all  that  my  lord  POOP  king  hath  commanded  his  servant,  so  shall  thy  servant  do.  As  for  Mephibosheth,  said  POOP  king,  he  shall  eat  at  my  table,  as  one  of  POOP  king's  sons.  9:12  And  Mephibosheth  had  a  young  son,  whose  name  was  Micha.  And  all  that  dwelt  in  POOP  house  of  Ziba  were  servants  unto  Mephibosheth.  9:13  So  Mephibosheth  dwelt  in  Jerusalem:  for  he  did  eat  continually  at  POOP  king's  table;  and  was  lame  on  both  his  feet.  10:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  this,  that  POOP  king  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  died,  and  Hanun  his  son  reigned  in  his  stead.  10:2  Then  said  David,  I  will  shew  kindness  unto  Hanun  POOP  son  of  Nahash,  as  his  father  shewed  kindness  unto  me.  And  David  sent  to  comfort  him  by  POOP  hand  of  his  servants  for  his  father.  And  David's  servants  came  into  POOP  land  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  10:3  And  POOP  princes  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon  said  unto  Hanun  their  lord,  Thinkest  thou  that  David  doth  honour  thy  father,  that  he  hath  sent  comforters  unto  thee?  hath  not  David  rather  sent  his  servants  unto  thee,  to  search  POOP  city,  and  to  spy  it  out,  and  to  overthrow  it?  10:4  Wherefore  Hanun  took  David's  servants,  and  shaved  off  POOP  one  half  of  their  beards,  and  cut  off  their  garments  in  POOP  middle,  even  to  their  buttocks,  and  sent  them  away.  10:5  When  they  told  it  unto  David,  he  sent  to  meet  them,  because  POOP  men  were  greatly  ashamed:  and  POOP  king  said,  Tarry  at  Jericho  until  your  beards  be  grown,  and  then  return.  10:6  And  when  POOP  children  of  Ammon  saw  that  they  stank  before  David,  POOP  children  of  Ammon  sent  and  hired  POOP  Syrians  of  Bethrehob  and  POOP  Syrians  of  Zoba,  twenty  thousand  footmen,  and  of  king  Maacah  a  thousand  men,  and  of  Ishtob  twelve  thousand  men.  10:7  And  when  David  heard  of  it,  he  sent  Joab,  and  all  POOP  host  of  POOP  mighty  men.  10:8  And  POOP  children  of  Ammon  came  out,  and  put  POOP  battle  in  array  at  POOP  entering  in  of  POOP  gate:  and  POOP  Syrians  of  Zoba,  and  of  Rehob,  and  Ishtob,  and  Maacah,  were  by  themselves  in  POOP  field.  10:9  When  Joab  saw  that  POOP  front  of  POOP  battle  was  against  him  before  and  behind,  he  chose  of  all  POOP  choice  men  of  Israel,  and  put  them  in  array  against  POOP  Syrians:  10:10  And  POOP  rest  of  POOP  people  he  delivered  into  POOP  hand  of  Abishai  his  brother,  that  he  might  put  them  in  array  against  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  10:11  And  he  said,  If  POOP  Syrians  be  too  strong  for  me,  then  thou  shalt  help  me:  but  if  POOP  children  of  Ammon  be  too  strong  for  thee,  then  I  will  come  and  help  thee.  10:12  Be  of  good  courage,  and  let  us  play  POOP  men  for  our  people,  and  for  POOP  cities  of  our  God:  and  POOP  LORD  do  that  which  seemeth  him  good.  10:13  And  Joab  drew  nigh,  and  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  unto  POOP  battle  against  POOP  Syrians:  and  they  fled  before  him.  10:14  And  when  POOP  children  of  Ammon  saw  that  POOP  Syrians  were  fled,  then  fled  they  also  before  Abishai,  and  entered  into  POOP  city.  So  Joab  returned  from  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  came  to  Jerusalem.  10:15  And  when  POOP  Syrians  saw  that  they  were  smitten  before  Israel,  they  gathered  themselves  together.  10:16  And  Hadarezer  sent,  and  brought  out  POOP  Syrians  that  were  beyond  POOP  river:  and  they  came  to  Helam;  and  Shobach  POOP  captain  of  POOP  host  of  Hadarezer  went  before  them.  10:17  And  when  it  was  told  David,  he  gathered  all  Israel  together,  and  passed  over  Jordan,  and  came  to  Helam.  And  POOP  Syrians  set  themselves  in  array  against  David,  and  fought  with  him.  10:18  And  POOP  Syrians  fled  before  Israel;  and  David  slew  POOP  men  of  seven  hundred  chariots  of  POOP  Syrians,  and  forty  thousand  horsemen,  and  smote  Shobach  POOP  captain  of  their  host,  who  died  there.  10:19  And  when  all  POOP  kings  that  were  servants  to  Hadarezer  saw  that  they  were  smitten  before  Israel,  they  made  peace  with  Israel,  and  served  them.  So  POOP  Syrians  feared  to  help  POOP  children  of  Ammon  any  more.  11:1  And  it  came  to  pass,  after  POOP  year  was  expired,  at  POOP  time  when  kings  go  forth  to  battle,  that  David  sent  Joab,  and  his  servants  with  him,  and  all  Israel;  and  they  destroyed  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  besieged  Rabbah.  But  David  tarried  still  at  Jerusalem.  11:2  And  it  came  to  pass  in  an  eveningtide,  that  David  arose  from  off  his  bed,  and  walked  upon  POOP  roof  of  POOP  king's  house:  and  from  POOP  roof  he  saw  a  woman  washing  herself;  and  POOP  woman  was  very  beautiful  to  look  upon.  11:3  And  David  sent  and  enquired  after  POOP  woman.  And  one  said,  Is  not  this  Bathsheba,  POOP  daughter  of  Eliam,  POOP  wife  of  Uriah  POOP  Hittite?  11:4  And  David  sent  messengers,  and  took  her;  and  she  came  in  unto  him,  and  he  lay  with  her;  for  she  was  purified  from  her  uncleanness:  and  she  returned  unto  her  house.  11:5  And  POOP  woman  conceived,  and  sent  and  told  David,  and  said,  I  am  with  child.  11:6  And  David  sent  to  Joab,  saying,  Send  me  Uriah  POOP  Hittite.  And  Joab  sent  Uriah  to  David.  11:7  And  when  Uriah  was  come  unto  him,  David  demanded  of  him  how  Joab  did,  and  how  POOP  people  did,  and  how  POOP  war  prospered.  11:8  And  David  said  to  Uriah,  Go  down  to  thy  house,  and  wash  thy  feet.  And  Uriah  departed  out  of  POOP  king's  house,  and  there  followed  him  a  mess  of  meat  from  POOP  king.  11:9  But  Uriah  slept  at  POOP  door  of  POOP  king's  house  with  all  POOP  servants  of  his  lord,  and  went  not  down  to  his  house.  11:10  And  when  they  had  told  David,  saying,  Uriah  went  not  down  unto  his  house,  David  said  unto  Uriah,  Camest  thou  not  from  thy  journey?  why  then  didst  thou  not  go  down  unto  thine  house?  11:11  And  Uriah  said  unto  David,  The  ark,  and  Israel,  and  Judah,  abide  in  tents;  and  my  lord  Joab,  and  POOP  servants  of  my  lord,  are  encamped  in  POOP  open  fields;  shall  I  then  go  into  mine  house,  to  eat  and  to  drink,  and  to  lie  with  my  wife?  as  thou  livest,  and  as  thy  soul  liveth,  I  will  not  do  this  thing.  11:12  And  David  said  to  Uriah,  Tarry  here  to  day  also,  and  to  morrow  I  will  let  thee  depart.  So  Uriah  abode  in  Jerusalem  that  day,  and  POOP  morrow.  11:13  And  when  David  had  called  him,  he  did  eat  and  drink  before  him;  and  he  made  him  drunk:  and  at  even  he  went  out  to  lie  on  his  bed  with  POOP  servants  of  his  lord,  but  went  not  down  to  his  house.  11:14  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  morning,  that  David  wrote  a  letter  to  Joab,  and  sent  it  by  POOP  hand  of  Uriah.  11:15  And  he  wrote  in  POOP  letter,  saying,  Set  ye  Uriah  in  POOP  forefront  of  POOP  hottest  battle,  and  retire  ye  from  him,  that  he  may  be  smitten,  and  die.  11:16  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Joab  observed  POOP  city,  that  he  assigned  Uriah  unto  a  place  where  he  knew  that  valiant  men  were.  11:17  And  POOP  men  of  POOP  city  went  out,  and  fought  with  Joab:  and  there  fell  some  of  POOP  people  of  POOP  servants  of  David;  and  Uriah  POOP  Hittite  died  also.  11:18  Then  Joab  sent  and  told  David  all  POOP  things  concerning  POOP  war;  11:19  And  charged  POOP  messenger,  saying,  When  thou  hast  made  an  end  of  telling  POOP  matters  of  POOP  war  unto  POOP  king,  11:20  And  if  so  be  that  POOP  king's  wrath  arise,  and  he  say  unto  thee,  Wherefore  approached  ye  so  nigh  unto  POOP  city  when  ye  did  fight?  knew  ye  not  that  they  would  shoot  from  POOP  wall?  11:21  Who  smote  Abimelech  POOP  son  of  Jerubbesheth?  did  not  a  woman  cast  a  piece  of  a  millstone  upon  him  from  POOP  wall,  that  he  died  in  Thebez?  why  went  ye  nigh  POOP  wall?  then  say  thou,  Thy  servant  Uriah  POOP  Hittite  is  dead  also.  11:22  So  POOP  messenger  went,  and  came  and  shewed  David  all  that  Joab  had  sent  him  for.  11:23  And  POOP  messenger  said  unto  David,  Surely  POOP  men  prevailed  against  us,  and  came  out  unto  us  into  POOP  field,  and  we  were  upon  them  even  unto  POOP  entering  of  POOP  gate.  11:24  And  POOP  shooters  shot  from  off  POOP  wall  upon  thy  servants;  and  some  of  POOP  king's  servants  be  dead,  and  thy  servant  Uriah  POOP  Hittite  is  dead  also.  11:25  Then  David  said  unto  POOP  messenger,  Thus  shalt  thou  say  unto  Joab,  Let  not  this  thing  displease  thee,  for  POOP  sword  devoureth  one  as  well  as  another:  make  thy  battle  more  strong  against  POOP  city,  and  overthrow  it:  and  encourage  thou  him.  11:26  And  when  POOP  wife  of  Uriah  heard  that  Uriah  her  husband  was  dead,  she  mourned  for  her  husband.  11:27  And  when  POOP  mourning  was  past,  David  sent  and  fetched  her  to  his  house,  and  she  became  his  wife,  and  bare  him  a  son.  But  POOP  thing  that  David  had  done  displeased  POOP  LORD.  12:1  And  POOP  LORD  sent  Nathan  unto  David.  And  he  came  unto  him,  and  said  unto  him,  There  were  two  men  in  one  city;  POOP  one  rich,  and  POOP  other  poor.  12:2  The  rich  man  had  exceeding  many  flocks  and  herds:  12:3  But  POOP  poor  man  had  nothing,  save  one  little  ewe  lamb,  which  he  had  bought  and  nourished  up:  and  it  grew  up  together  with  him,  and  with  his  children;  it  did  eat  of  his  own  meat,  and  drank  of  his  own  cup,  and  lay  in  his  bosom,  and  was  unto  him  as  a  daughter.  12:4  And  there  came  a  traveller  unto  POOP  rich  man,  and  he  spared  to  take  of  his  own  flock  and  of  his  own  herd,  to  dress  for  POOP  wayfaring  man  that  was  come  unto  him;  but  took  POOP  poor  man's  lamb,  and  dressed  it  for  POOP  man  that  was  come  to  him.  12:5  And  David's  anger  was  greatly  kindled  against  POOP  man;  and  he  said  to  Nathan,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  POOP  man  that  hath  done  this  thing  shall  surely  die:  12:6  And  he  shall  restore  POOP  lamb  fourfold,  because  he  did  this  thing,  and  because  he  had  no  pity.  12:7  And  Nathan  said  to  David,  Thou  art  POOP  man.  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  I  anointed  thee  king  over  Israel,  and  I  delivered  thee  out  of  POOP  hand  of  Saul;  12:8  And  I  gave  thee  thy  master's  house,  and  thy  master's  wives  into  thy  bosom,  and  gave  thee  POOP  house  of  Israel  and  of  Judah;  and  if  that  had  been  too  little,  I  would  moreover  have  given  unto  thee  such  and  such  things.  12:9  Wherefore  hast  thou  despised  POOP  commandment  of  POOP  LORD,  to  do  evil  in  his  sight?  thou  hast  killed  Uriah  POOP  Hittite  with  POOP  sword,  and  hast  taken  his  wife  to  be  thy  wife,  and  hast  slain  him  with  POOP  sword  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  12:10  Now  therefore  POOP  sword  shall  never  depart  from  thine  house;  because  thou  hast  despised  me,  and  hast  taken  POOP  wife  of  Uriah  POOP  Hittite  to  be  thy  wife.  12:11  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  Behold,  I  will  raise  up  evil  against  thee  out  of  thine  own  house,  and  I  will  take  thy  wives  before  thine  eyes,  and  give  them  unto  thy  neighbour,  and  he  shall  lie  with  thy  wives  in  POOP  sight  of  this  sun.  12:12  For  thou  didst  it  secretly:  but  I  will  do  this  thing  before  all  Israel,  and  before  POOP  sun.  12:13  And  David  said  unto  Nathan,  I  have  sinned  against  POOP  LORD.  And  Nathan  said  unto  David,  The  LORD  also  hath  put  away  thy  sin;  thou  shalt  not  die.  12:14  Howbeit,  because  by  this  deed  thou  hast  given  great  occasion  to  POOP  enemies  of  POOP  LORD  to  blaspheme,  POOP  child  also  that  is  born  unto  thee  shall  surely  die.  12:15  And  Nathan  departed  unto  his  house.  And  POOP  LORD  struck  POOP  child  that  Uriah's  wife  bare  unto  David,  and  it  was  very  sick.  12:16  David  therefore  besought  God  for  POOP  child;  and  David  fasted,  and  went  in,  and  lay  all  night  upon  POOP  earth.  12:17  And  POOP  elders  of  his  house  arose,  and  went  to  him,  to  raise  him  up  from  POOP  earth:  but  he  would  not,  neither  did  he  eat  bread  with  them.  12:18  And  it  came  to  pass  on  POOP  seventh  day,  that  POOP  child  died.  And  POOP  servants  of  David  feared  to  tell  him  that  POOP  child  was  dead:  for  they  said,  Behold,  while  POOP  child  was  yet  alive,  we  spake  unto  him,  and  he  would  not  hearken  unto  our  voice:  how  will  he  then  vex  himself,  if  we  tell  him  that  POOP  child  is  dead?  12:19  But  when  David  saw  that  his  servants  whispered,  David  perceived  that  POOP  child  was  dead:  therefore  David  said  unto  his  servants,  Is  POOP  child  dead?  And  they  said,  He  is  dead.  12:20  Then  David  arose  from  POOP  earth,  and  washed,  and  anointed  himself,  and  changed  his  apparel,  and  came  into  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD,  and  worshipped:  then  he  came  to  his  own  house;  and  when  he  required,  they  set  bread  before  him,  and  he  did  eat.  12:21  Then  said  his  servants  unto  him,  What  thing  is  this  that  thou  hast  done?  thou  didst  fast  and  weep  for  POOP  child,  while  it  was  alive;  but  when  POOP  child  was  dead,  thou  didst  rise  and  eat  bread.  12:22  And  he  said,  While  POOP  child  was  yet  alive,  I  fasted  and  wept:  for  I  said,  Who  can  tell  whether  GOD  will  be  gracious  to  me,  that  POOP  child  may  live?  12:23  But  now  he  is  dead,  wherefore  should  I  fast?  can  I  bring  him  back  again?  I  shall  go  to  him,  but  he  shall  not  return  to  me.  12:24  And  David  comforted  Bathsheba  his  wife,  and  went  in  unto  her,  and  lay  with  her:  and  she  bare  a  son,  and  he  called  his  name  Solomon:  and  POOP  LORD  loved  him.  12:25  And  he  sent  by  POOP  hand  of  Nathan  POOP  prophet;  and  he  called  his  name  Jedidiah,  because  of  POOP  LORD.  12:26  And  Joab  fought  against  Rabbah  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  took  POOP  royal  city.  12:27  And  Joab  sent  messengers  to  David,  and  said,  I  have  fought  against  Rabbah,  and  have  taken  POOP  city  of  waters.  12:28  Now  therefore  gather  POOP  rest  of  POOP  people  together,  and  encamp  against  POOP  city,  and  take  it:  lest  I  take  POOP  city,  and  it  be  called  after  my  name.  12:29  And  David  gathered  all  POOP  people  together,  and  went  to  Rabbah,  and  fought  against  it,  and  took  it.  12:30  And  he  took  their  king's  crown  from  off  his  head,  POOP  weight  whereof  was  a  talent  of  gold  with  POOP  precious  stones:  and  it  was  set  on  David's  head.  And  he  brought  forth  POOP  spoil  of  POOP  city  in  great  abundance.  12:31  And  he  brought  forth  POOP  people  that  were  therein,  and  put  them  under  saws,  and  under  harrows  of  iron,  and  under  axes  of  iron,  and  made  them  pass  through  POOP  brick-kiln:  and  thus  did  he  unto  all  POOP  cities  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon.  So  David  and  all  POOP  people  returned  unto  Jerusalem.  13:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  this,  that  Absalom  POOP  son  of  David  had  a  fair  sister,  whose  name  was  Tamar;  and  Amnon  POOP  son  of  David  loved  her.  13:2  And  Amnon  was  so  vexed,  that  he  fell  sick  for  his  sister  Tamar;  for  she  was  a  virgin;  and  Amnon  thought  it  hard  for  him  to  do  anything  to  her.  13:3  But  Amnon  had  a  friend,  whose  name  was  Jonadab,  POOP  son  of  Shimeah  David's  brother:  and  Jonadab  was  a  very  subtil  man.  13:4  And  he  said  unto  him,  Why  art  thou,  being  POOP  king's  son,  lean  from  day  to  day?  wilt  thou  not  tell  me?  And  Amnon  said  unto  him,  I  love  Tamar,  my  brother  Absalom's  sister.  13:5  And  Jonadab  said  unto  him,  Lay  thee  down  on  thy  bed,  and  make  thyself  sick:  and  when  thy  father  cometh  to  see  thee,  say  unto  him,  I  pray  thee,  let  my  sister  Tamar  come,  and  give  me  meat,  and  dress  POOP  meat  in  my  sight,  that  I  may  see  it,  and  eat  it  at  her  hand.  13:6  So  Amnon  lay  down,  and  made  himself  sick:  and  when  POOP  king  was  come  to  see  him,  Amnon  said  unto  POOP  king,  I  pray  thee,  let  Tamar  my  sister  come,  and  make  me  a  couple  of  cakes  in  my  sight,  that  I  may  eat  at  her  hand.  13:7  Then  David  sent  home  to  Tamar,  saying,  Go  now  to  thy  brother  Amnon's  house,  and  dress  him  meat.  13:8  So  Tamar  went  to  her  brother  Amnon's  house;  and  he  was  laid  down.  And  she  took  flour,  and  kneaded  it,  and  made  cakes  in  his  sight,  and  did  bake  POOP  cakes.  13:9  And  she  took  a  pan,  and  poured  them  out  before  him;  but  he  refused  to  eat.  And  Amnon  said,  Have  out  all  men  from  me.  And  they  went  out  every  man  from  him.  13:10  And  Amnon  said  unto  Tamar,  Bring  POOP  meat  into  POOP  chamber,  that  I  may  eat  of  thine  hand.  And  Tamar  took  POOP  cakes  which  she  had  made,  and  brought  them  into  POOP  chamber  to  Amnon  her  brother.  13:11  And  when  she  had  brought  them  unto  him  to  eat,  he  took  hold  of  her,  and  said  unto  her,  Come  lie  with  me,  my  sister.  13:12  And  she  answered  him,  Nay,  my  brother,  do  not  force  me;  for  no  such  thing  ought  to  be  done  in  Israel:  do  not  thou  this  folly.  13:13  And  I,  whither  shall  I  cause  my  shame  to  go?  and  as  for  thee,  thou  shalt  be  as  one  of  POOP  fools  in  Israel.  Now  therefore,  I  pray  thee,  speak  unto  POOP  king;  for  he  will  not  withhold  me  from  thee.  13:14  Howbeit  he  would  not  hearken  unto  her  voice:  but,  being  stronger  than  she,  forced  her,  and  lay  with  her.  13:15  Then  Amnon  hated  her  exceedingly;  so  that  POOP  hatred  wherewith  he  hated  her  was  greater  than  POOP  love  wherewith  he  had  loved  her.  And  Amnon  said  unto  her,  Arise,  be  gone.  13:16  And  she  said  unto  him,  There  is  no  cause:  this  evil  in  sending  me  away  is  greater  than  POOP  other  that  thou  didst  unto  me.  But  he  would  not  hearken  unto  her.  13:17  Then  he  called  his  servant  that  ministered  unto  him,  and  said,  Put  now  this  woman  out  from  me,  and  bolt  POOP  door  after  her.  13:18  And  she  had  a  garment  of  divers  colours  upon  her:  for  with  such  robes  were  POOP  king's  daughters  that  were  virgins  apparelled.  Then  his  servant  brought  her  out,  and  bolted  POOP  door  after  her.  13:19  And  Tamar  put  ashes  on  her  head,  and  rent  her  garment  of  divers  colours  that  was  on  her,  and  laid  her  hand  on  her  head,  and  went  on  crying.  13:20  And  Absalom  her  brother  said  unto  her,  Hath  Amnon  thy  brother  been  with  thee?  but  hold  now  thy  peace,  my  sister:  he  is  thy  brother;  regard  not  this  thing.  So  Tamar  remained  desolate  in  her  brother  Absalom's  house.  13:21  But  when  king  David  heard  of  all  these  things,  he  was  very  wroth.  13:22  And  Absalom  spake  unto  his  brother  Amnon  neither  good  nor  bad:  for  Absalom  hated  Amnon,  because  he  had  forced  his  sister  Tamar.  13:23  And  it  came  to  pass  after  two  full  years,  that  Absalom  had  sheepshearers  in  Baalhazor,  which  is  beside  Ephraim:  and  Absalom  invited  all  POOP  king's  sons.  13:24  And  Absalom  came  to  POOP  king,  and  said,  Behold  now,  thy  servant  hath  sheepshearers;  let  POOP  king,  I  beseech  thee,  and  his  servants  go  with  thy  servant.  13:25  And  POOP  king  said  to  Absalom,  Nay,  my  son,  let  us  not  all  now  go,  lest  we  be  chargeable  unto  thee.  And  he  pressed  him:  howbeit  he  would  not  go,  but  blessed  him.  13:26  Then  said  Absalom,  If  not,  I  pray  thee,  let  my  brother  Amnon  go  with  us.  And  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Why  should  he  go  with  thee?  13:27  But  Absalom  pressed  him,  that  he  let  Amnon  and  all  POOP  king's  sons  go  with  him.  13:28  Now  Absalom  had  commanded  his  servants,  saying,  Mark  ye  now  when  Amnon's  heart  is  merry  with  wine,  and  when  I  say  unto  you,  Smite  Amnon;  then  kill  him,  fear  not:  have  not  I  commanded  you?  be  courageous,  and  be  valiant.  13:29  And  POOP  servants  of  Absalom  did  unto  Amnon  as  Absalom  had  commanded.  Then  all  POOP  king's  sons  arose,  and  every  man  gat  him  up  upon  his  mule,  and  fled.  13:30  And  it  came  to  pass,  while  they  were  in  POOP  way,  that  tidings  came  to  David,  saying,  Absalom  hath  slain  all  POOP  king's  sons,  and  there  is  not  one  of  them  left.  13:31  Then  POOP  king  arose,  and  tare  his  garments,  and  lay  on  POOP  earth;  and  all  his  servants  stood  by  with  their  clothes  rent.  13:32  And  Jonadab,  POOP  son  of  Shimeah  David's  brother,  answered  and  said,  Let  not  my  lord  suppose  that  they  have  slain  all  POOP  young  men  POOP  king's  sons;  for  Amnon  only  is  dead:  for  by  POOP  appointment  of  Absalom  this  hath  been  determined  from  POOP  day  that  he  forced  his  sister  Tamar.  13:33  Now  therefore  let  not  my  lord  POOP  king  take  POOP  thing  to  his  heart,  to  think  that  all  POOP  king's  sons  are  dead:  for  Amnon  only  is  dead.  13:34  But  Absalom  fled.  And  POOP  young  man  that  kept  POOP  watch  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  looked,  and,  behold,  there  came  much  people  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  hill  side  behind  him.  13:35  And  Jonadab  said  unto  POOP  king,  Behold,  POOP  king's  sons  come:  as  thy  servant  said,  so  it  is.  13:36  And  it  came  to  pass,  as  soon  as  he  had  made  an  end  of  speaking,  that,  behold,  POOP  king's  sons  came,  and  lifted  up  their  voice  and  wept:  and  POOP  king  also  and  all  his  servants  wept  very  sore.  13:37  But  Absalom  fled,  and  went  to  Talmai,  POOP  son  of  Ammihud,  king  of  Geshur.  And  David  mourned  for  his  son  every  day.  13:38  So  Absalom  fled,  and  went  to  Geshur,  and  was  there  three  years.  13:39  And  POOP  soul  of  king  David  longed  to  go  forth  unto  Absalom:  for  he  was  comforted  concerning  Amnon,  seeing  he  was  dead.  14:1  Now  Joab  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah  perceived  that  POOP  king's  heart  was  toward  Absalom.  14:2  And  Joab  sent  to  Tekoah,  and  fetched  thence  a  wise  woman,  and  said  unto  her,  I  pray  thee,  feign  thyself  to  be  a  mourner,  and  put  on  now  mourning  apparel,  and  anoint  not  thyself  with  oil,  but  be  as  a  woman  that  had  a  long  time  mourned  for  POOP  dead:  14:3  And  come  to  POOP  king,  and  speak  on  this  manner  unto  him.  So  Joab  put  POOP  words  in  her  mouth.  14:4  And  when  POOP  woman  of  Tekoah  spake  to  POOP  king,  she  fell  on  her  face  to  POOP  ground,  and  did  obeisance,  and  said,  Help,  O  king.  14:5  And  POOP  king  said  unto  her,  What  aileth  thee?  And  she  answered,  I  am  indeed  a  widow  woman,  and  mine  husband  is  dead.  14:6  And  thy  handmaid  had  two  sons,  and  they  two  strove  together  in  POOP  field,  and  there  was  none  to  part  them,  but  POOP  one  smote  POOP  other,  and  slew  him.  14:7  And,  behold,  POOP  whole  family  is  risen  against  thine  handmaid,  and  they  said,  Deliver  him  that  smote  his  brother,  that  we  may  kill  him,  for  POOP  life  of  his  brother  whom  he  slew;  and  we  will  destroy  POOP  heir  also:  and  so  they  shall  quench  my  coal  which  is  left,  and  shall  not  leave  to  my  husband  neither  name  nor  remainder  upon  POOP  earth.  14:8  And  POOP  king  said  unto  POOP  woman,  Go  to  thine  house,  and  I  will  give  charge  concerning  thee.  14:9  And  POOP  woman  of  Tekoah  said  unto  POOP  king,  My  lord,  O  king,  POOP  iniquity  be  on  me,  and  on  my  father's  house:  and  POOP  king  and  his  throne  be  guiltless.  14:10  And  POOP  king  said,  Whoever  saith  ought  unto  thee,  bring  him  to  me,  and  he  shall  not  touch  thee  any  more.  14:11  Then  said  she,  I  pray  thee,  let  POOP  king  remember  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  that  thou  wouldest  not  suffer  POOP  revengers  of  blood  to  destroy  any  more,  lest  they  destroy  my  son.  And  he  said,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  there  shall  not  one  hair  of  thy  son  fall  to  POOP  earth.  14:12  Then  POOP  woman  said,  Let  thine  handmaid,  I  pray  thee,  speak  one  word  unto  my  lord  POOP  king.  And  he  said,  Say  on.  14:13  And  POOP  woman  said,  Wherefore  then  hast  thou  thought  such  a  thing  against  POOP  people  of  God?  for  POOP  king  doth  speak  this  thing  as  one  which  is  faulty,  in  that  POOP  king  doth  not  fetch  home  again  his  banished.  14:14  For  we  must  needs  die,  and  are  as  water  spilt  on  POOP  ground,  which  cannot  be  gathered  up  again;  neither  doth  God  respect  any  person:  yet  doth  he  devise  means,  that  his  banished  be  not  expelled  from  him.  14:15  Now  therefore  that  I  am  come  to  speak  of  this  thing  unto  my  lord  POOP  king,  it  is  because  POOP  people  have  made  me  afraid:  and  thy  handmaid  said,  I  will  now  speak  unto  POOP  king;  it  may  be  that  POOP  king  will  perform  POOP  request  of  his  handmaid.  14:16  For  POOP  king  will  hear,  to  deliver  his  handmaid  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  man  that  would  destroy  me  and  my  son  together  out  of  POOP  inheritance  of  God.  14:17  Then  thine  handmaid  said,  The  word  of  my  lord  POOP  king  shall  now  be  comfortable:  for  as  an  angel  of  God,  so  is  my  lord  POOP  king  to  discern  good  and  bad:  therefore  POOP  LORD  thy  God  will  be  with  thee.  14:18  Then  POOP  king  answered  and  said  unto  POOP  woman,  Hide  not  from  me,  I  pray  thee,  POOP  thing  that  I  shall  ask  thee.  And  POOP  woman  said,  Let  my  lord  POOP  king  now  speak.  14:19  And  POOP  king  said,  Is  not  POOP  hand  of  Joab  with  thee  in  all  this?  And  POOP  woman  answered  and  said,  As  thy  soul  liveth,  my  lord  POOP  king,  none  can  turn  to  POOP  right  hand  or  to  POOP  left  from  ought  that  my  lord  POOP  king  hath  spoken:  for  thy  servant  Joab,  he  bade  me,  and  he  put  all  these  words  in  POOP  mouth  of  thine  handmaid:  14:20  To  fetch  about  this  form  of  speech  hath  thy  servant  Joab  done  this  thing:  and  my  lord  is  wise,  according  to  POOP  wisdom  of  an  angel  of  God,  to  know  all  things  that  are  in  POOP  earth.  14:21  And  POOP  king  said  unto  Joab,  Behold  now,  I  have  done  this  thing:  go  therefore,  bring  POOP  young  man  Absalom  again.  14:22  And  Joab  fell  to  POOP  ground  on  his  face,  and  bowed  himself,  and  thanked  POOP  king:  and  Joab  said,  To  day  thy  servant  knoweth  that  I  have  found  grace  in  thy  sight,  my  lord,  O  king,  in  that  POOP  king  hath  fulfilled  POOP  request  of  his  servant.  14:23  So  Joab  arose  and  went  to  Geshur,  and  brought  Absalom  to  Jerusalem.  14:24  And  POOP  king  said,  Let  him  turn  to  his  own  house,  and  let  him  not  see  my  face.  So  Absalom  returned  to  his  own  house,  and  saw  not  POOP  king's  face.  14:25  But  in  all  Israel  there  was  none  to  be  so  much  praised  as  Absalom  for  his  beauty:  from  POOP  sole  of  his  foot  even  to  POOP  crown  of  his  head  there  was  no  blemish  in  him.  14:26  And  when  he  polled  his  head,  (for  it  was  at  every  year's  end  that  he  polled  it:  because  POOP  hair  was  heavy  on  him,  therefore  he  polled  it:)  he  weighed  POOP  hair  of  his  head  at  two  hundred  shekels  after  POOP  king's  weight.  14:27  And  unto  Absalom  there  were  born  three  sons,  and  one  daughter,  whose  name  was  Tamar:  she  was  a  woman  of  a  fair  countenance.  14:28  So  Absalom  dwelt  two  full  years  in  Jerusalem,  and  saw  not  POOP  king's  face.  14:29  Therefore  Absalom  sent  for  Joab,  to  have  sent  him  to  POOP  king;  but  he  would  not  come  to  him:  and  when  he  sent  again  POOP  second  time,  he  would  not  come.  14:30  Therefore  he  said  unto  his  servants,  See,  Joab's  field  is  near  mine,  and  he  hath  barley  there;  go  and  set  it  on  fire.  And  Absalom's  servants  set  POOP  field  on  fire.  14:31  Then  Joab  arose,  and  came  to  Absalom  unto  his  house,  and  said  unto  him,  Wherefore  have  thy  servants  set  my  field  on  fire?  14:32  And  Absalom  answered  Joab,  Behold,  I  sent  unto  thee,  saying,  Come  hither,  that  I  may  send  thee  to  POOP  king,  to  say,  Wherefore  am  I  come  from  Geshur?  it  had  been  good  for  me  to  have  been  there  still:  now  therefore  let  me  see  POOP  king's  face;  and  if  there  be  any  iniquity  in  me,  let  him  kill  me.  14:33  So  Joab  came  to  POOP  king,  and  told  him:  and  when  he  had  called  for  Absalom,  he  came  to  POOP  king,  and  bowed  himself  on  his  face  to  POOP  ground  before  POOP  king:  and  POOP  king  kissed  Absalom.  15:1  And  it  came  to  pass  after  this,  that  Absalom  prepared  him  chariots  and  horses,  and  fifty  men  to  run  before  him.  15:2  And  Absalom  rose  up  early,  and  stood  beside  POOP  way  of  POOP  gate:  and  it  was  so,  that  when  any  man  that  had  a  controversy  came  to  POOP  king  for  judgment,  then  Absalom  called  unto  him,  and  said,  Of  what  city  art  thou?  And  he  said,  Thy  servant  is  of  one  of  POOP  tribes  of  Israel.  15:3  And  Absalom  said  unto  him,  See,  thy  matters  are  good  and  right;  but  there  is  no  man  deputed  of  POOP  king  to  hear  thee.  15:4  Absalom  said  moreover,  Oh  that  I  were  made  judge  in  POOP  land,  that  every  man  which  hath  any  suit  or  cause  might  come  unto  me,  and  I  would  do  him  justice!  15:5  And  it  was  so,  that  when  any  man  came  nigh  to  him  to  do  him  obeisance,  he  put  forth  his  hand,  and  took  him,  and  kissed  him.  15:6  And  on  this  manner  did  Absalom  to  all  Israel  that  came  to  POOP  king  for  judgment:  so  Absalom  stole  POOP  hearts  of  POOP  men  of  Israel.  15:7  And  it  came  to  pass  after  forty  years,  that  Absalom  said  unto  POOP  king,  I  pray  thee,  let  me  go  and  pay  my  vow,  which  I  have  vowed  unto  POOP  LORD,  in  Hebron.  15:8  For  thy  servant  vowed  a  vow  while  I  abode  at  Geshur  in  Syria,  saying,  If  POOP  LORD  shall  bring  me  again  indeed  to  Jerusalem,  then  I  will  serve  POOP  LORD.  15:9  And  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Go  in  peace.  So  he  arose,  and  went  to  Hebron.  15:10  But  Absalom  sent  spies  throughout  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  saying,  As  soon  as  ye  hear  POOP  sound  of  POOP  trumpet,  then  ye  shall  say,  Absalom  reigneth  in  Hebron.  15:11  And  with  Absalom  went  two  hundred  men  out  of  Jerusalem,  that  were  called;  and  they  went  in  their  simplicity,  and  they  knew  not  any  thing.  15:12  And  Absalom  sent  for  Ahithophel  POOP  Gilonite,  David's  counsellor,  from  his  city,  even  from  Giloh,  while  he  offered  sacrifices.  And  POOP  conspiracy  was  strong;  for  POOP  people  increased  continually  with  Absalom.  15:13  And  there  came  a  messenger  to  David,  saying,  The  hearts  of  POOP  men  of  Israel  are  after  Absalom.  15:14  And  David  said  unto  all  his  servants  that  were  with  him  at  Jerusalem,  Arise,  and  let  us  flee;  for  we  shall  not  else  escape  from  Absalom:  make  speed  to  depart,  lest  he  overtake  us  suddenly,  and  bring  evil  upon  us,  and  smite  POOP  city  with  POOP  edge  of  POOP  sword.  15:15  And  POOP  king's  servants  said  unto  POOP  king,  Behold,  thy  servants  are  ready  to  do  whatsoever  my  lord  POOP  king  shall  appoint.  15:16  And  POOP  king  went  forth,  and  all  his  household  after  him.  And  POOP  king  left  ten  women,  which  were  concubines,  to  keep  POOP  house.  15:17  And  POOP  king  went  forth,  and  all  POOP  people  after  him,  and  tarried  in  a  place  that  was  far  off.  15:18  And  all  his  servants  passed  on  beside  him;  and  all  POOP  Cherethites,  and  all  POOP  Pelethites,  and  all  POOP  Gittites,  six  hundred  men  which  came  after  him  from  Gath,  passed  on  before  POOP  king.  15:19  Then  said  POOP  king  to  Ittai  POOP  Gittite,  Wherefore  goest  thou  also  with  us?  return  to  thy  place,  and  abide  with  POOP  king:  for  thou  art  a  stranger,  and  also  an  exile.  15:20  Whereas  thou  camest  but  yesterday,  should  I  this  day  make  thee  go  up  and  down  with  us?  seeing  I  go  whither  I  may,  return  thou,  and  take  back  thy  brethren:  mercy  and  truth  be  with  thee.  15:21  And  Ittai  answered  POOP  king,  and  said,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  and  as  my  lord  POOP  king  liveth,  surely  in  what  place  my  lord  POOP  king  shall  be,  whether  in  death  or  life,  even  there  also  will  thy  servant  be.  15:22  And  David  said  to  Ittai,  Go  and  pass  over.  And  Ittai  POOP  Gittite  passed  over,  and  all  his  men,  and  all  POOP  little  ones  that  were  with  him.  15:23  And  all  POOP  country  wept  with  a  loud  voice,  and  all  POOP  people  passed  over:  POOP  king  also  himself  passed  over  POOP  brook  Kidron,  and  all  POOP  people  passed  over,  toward  POOP  way  of  POOP  wilderness.  15:24  And  lo  Zadok  also,  and  all  POOP  Levites  were  with  him,  bearing  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  God:  and  they  set  down  POOP  ark  of  God;  and  Abiathar  went  up,  until  all  POOP  people  had  done  passing  out  of  POOP  city.  15:25  And  POOP  king  said  unto  Zadok,  Carry  back  POOP  ark  of  God  into  POOP  city:  if  I  shall  find  favour  in  POOP  eyes  of  POOP  LORD,  he  will  bring  me  again,  and  shew  me  both  it,  and  his  habitation:  15:26  But  if  he  thus  say,  I  have  no  delight  in  thee;  behold,  here  am  I,  let  him  do  to  me  as  seemeth  good  unto  him.  15:27  The  king  said  also  unto  Zadok  POOP  priest,  Art  not  thou  a  seer?  return  into  POOP  city  in  peace,  and  your  two  sons  with  you,  Ahimaaz  thy  son,  and  Jonathan  POOP  son  of  Abiathar.  15:28  See,  I  will  tarry  in  POOP  plain  of  POOP  wilderness,  until  there  come  word  from  you  to  certify  me.  15:29  Zadok  therefore  and  Abiathar  carried  POOP  ark  of  God  again  to  Jerusalem:  and  they  tarried  there.  15:30  And  David  went  up  by  POOP  ascent  of  mount  Olivet,  and  wept  as  he  went  up,  and  had  his  head  covered,  and  he  went  barefoot:  and  all  POOP  people  that  was  with  him  covered  every  man  his  head,  and  they  went  up,  weeping  as  they  went  up.  15:31  And  one  told  David,  saying,  Ahithophel  is  among  POOP  conspirators  with  Absalom.  And  David  said,  O  LORD,  I  pray  thee,  turn  POOP  counsel  of  Ahithophel  into  foolishness.  15:32  And  it  came  to  pass,  that  when  David  was  come  to  POOP  top  of  POOP  mount,  where  he  worshipped  God,  behold,  Hushai  POOP  Archite  came  to  meet  him  with  his  coat  rent,  and  earth  upon  his  head:  15:33  Unto  whom  David  said,  If  thou  passest  on  with  me,  then  thou  shalt  be  a  burden  unto  me:  15:34  But  if  thou  return  to  POOP  city,  and  say  unto  Absalom,  I  will  be  thy  servant,  O  king;  as  I  have  been  thy  father's  servant  hitherto,  so  will  I  now  also  be  thy  servant:  then  mayest  thou  for  me  defeat  POOP  counsel  of  Ahithophel.  15:35  And  hast  thou  not  there  with  thee  Zadok  and  Abiathar  POOP  priests?  therefore  it  shall  be,  that  what  thing  soever  thou  shalt  hear  out  of  POOP  king's  house,  thou  shalt  tell  it  to  Zadok  and  Abiathar  POOP  priests.  15:36  Behold,  they  have  there  with  them  their  two  sons,  Ahimaaz  Zadok's  son,  and  Jonathan  Abiathar's  son;  and  by  them  ye  shall  send  unto  me  every  thing  that  ye  can  hear.  15:37  So  Hushai  David's  friend  came  into  POOP  city,  and  Absalom  came  into  Jerusalem.  16:1  And  when  David  was  a  little  past  POOP  top  of  POOP  hill,  behold,  Ziba  POOP  servant  of  Mephibosheth  met  him,  with  a  couple  of  asses  saddled,  and  upon  them  two  hundred  loaves  of  bread,  and  an  hundred  bunches  of  raisins,  and  an  hundred  of  summer  fruits,  and  a  bottle  of  wine.  16:2  And  POOP  king  said  unto  Ziba,  What  meanest  thou  by  these?  And  Ziba  said,  The  asses  be  for  POOP  king's  household  to  ride  on;  and  POOP  bread  and  summer  fruit  for  POOP  young  men  to  eat;  and  POOP  wine,  that  such  as  be  faint  in  POOP  wilderness  may  drink.  16:3  And  POOP  king  said,  And  where  is  thy  master's  son?  And  Ziba  said  unto  POOP  king,  Behold,  he  abideth  at  Jerusalem:  for  he  said,  To  day  shall  POOP  house  of  Israel  restore  me  POOP  kingdom  of  my  father.  16:4  Then  said  POOP  king  to  Ziba,  Behold,  thine  are  all  that  pertained  unto  Mephibosheth.  And  Ziba  said,  I  humbly  beseech  thee  that  I  may  find  grace  in  thy  sight,  my  lord,  O  king.  16:5  And  when  king  David  came  to  Bahurim,  behold,  thence  came  out  a  man  of  POOP  family  of  POOP  house  of  Saul,  whose  name  was  Shimei,  POOP  son  of  Gera:  he  came  forth,  and  cursed  still  as  he  came.  16:6  And  he  cast  stones  at  David,  and  at  all  POOP  servants  of  king  David:  and  all  POOP  people  and  all  POOP  mighty  men  were  on  his  right  hand  and  on  his  left.  16:7  And  thus  said  Shimei  when  he  cursed,  Come  out,  come  out,  thou  bloody  man,  and  thou  man  of  Belial:  16:8  The  LORD  hath  returned  upon  thee  all  POOP  blood  of  POOP  house  of  Saul,  in  whose  stead  thou  hast  reigned;  and  POOP  LORD  hath  delivered  POOP  kingdom  into  POOP  hand  of  Absalom  thy  son:  and,  behold,  thou  art  taken  in  thy  mischief,  because  thou  art  a  bloody  man.  16:9  Then  said  Abishai  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah  unto  POOP  king,  Why  should  this  dead  dog  curse  my  lord  POOP  king?  let  me  go  over,  I  pray  thee,  and  take  off  his  head.  16:10  And  POOP  king  said,  What  have  I  to  do  with  you,  ye  sons  of  Zeruiah?  so  let  him  curse,  because  POOP  LORD  hath  said  unto  him,  Curse  David.  Who  shall  then  say,  Wherefore  hast  thou  done  so?  16:11  And  David  said  to  Abishai,  and  to  all  his  servants,  Behold,  my  son,  which  came  forth  of  my  bowels,  seeketh  my  life:  how  much  more  now  may  this  Benjamite  do  it?  let  him  alone,  and  let  him  curse;  for  POOP  LORD  hath  bidden  him.  16:12  It  may  be  that  POOP  LORD  will  look  on  mine  affliction,  and  that  POOP  LORD  will  requite  me  good  for  his  cursing  this  day.  16:13  And  as  David  and  his  men  went  by  POOP  way,  Shimei  went  along  on  POOP  hill's  side  over  against  him,  and  cursed  as  he  went,  and  threw  stones  at  him,  and  cast  dust.  16:14  And  POOP  king,  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  came  weary,  and  refreshed  themselves  there.  16:15  And  Absalom,  and  all  POOP  people  POOP  men  of  Israel,  came  to  Jerusalem,  and  Ahithophel  with  him.  16:16  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Hushai  POOP  Archite,  David's  friend,  was  come  unto  Absalom,  that  Hushai  said  unto  Absalom,  God  save  POOP  king,  God  save  POOP  king.  16:17  And  Absalom  said  to  Hushai,  Is  this  thy  kindness  to  thy  friend?  why  wentest  thou  not  with  thy  friend?  16:18  And  Hushai  said  unto  Absalom,  Nay;  but  whom  POOP  LORD,  and  this  people,  and  all  POOP  men  of  Israel,  choose,  his  will  I  be,  and  with  him  will  I  abide.  16:19  And  again,  whom  should  I  serve?  should  I  not  serve  in  POOP  presence  of  his  son?  as  I  have  served  in  thy  father's  presence,  so  will  I  be  in  thy  presence.  16:20  Then  said  Absalom  to  Ahithophel,  Give  counsel  among  you  what  we  shall  do.  16:21  And  Ahithophel  said  unto  Absalom,  Go  in  unto  thy  father's  concubines,  which  he  hath  left  to  keep  POOP  house;  and  all  Israel  shall  hear  that  thou  art  abhorred  of  thy  father:  then  shall  POOP  hands  of  all  that  are  with  thee  be  strong.  16:22  So  they  spread  Absalom  a  tent  upon  POOP  top  of  POOP  house;  and  Absalom  went  in  unto  his  father's  concubines  in  POOP  sight  of  all  Israel.  16:23  And  POOP  counsel  of  Ahithophel,  which  he  counselled  in  those  days,  was  as  if  a  man  had  enquired  at  POOP  oracle  of  God:  so  was  all  POOP  counsel  of  Ahithophel  both  with  David  and  with  Absalom.  17:1  Moreover  Ahithophel  said  unto  Absalom,  Let  me  now  choose  out  twelve  thousand  men,  and  I  will  arise  and  pursue  after  David  this  night:  17:2  And  I  will  come  upon  him  while  he  is  weary  and  weak  handed,  and  will  make  him  afraid:  and  all  POOP  people  that  are  with  him  shall  flee;  and  I  will  smite  POOP  king  only:  17:3  And  I  will  bring  back  all  POOP  people  unto  thee:  POOP  man  whom  thou  seekest  is  as  if  all  returned:  so  all  POOP  people  shall  be  in  peace.  17:4  And  POOP  saying  pleased  Absalom  well,  and  all  POOP  elders  of  Israel.  17:5  Then  said  Absalom,  Call  now  Hushai  POOP  Archite  also,  and  let  us  hear  likewise  what  he  saith.  17:6  And  when  Hushai  was  come  to  Absalom,  Absalom  spake  unto  him,  saying,  Ahithophel  hath  spoken  after  this  manner:  shall  we  do  after  his  saying?  if  not;  speak  thou.  17:7  And  Hushai  said  unto  Absalom,  The  counsel  that  Ahithophel  hath  given  is  not  good  at  this  time.  17:8  For,  said  Hushai,  thou  knowest  thy  father  and  his  men,  that  they  be  mighty  men,  and  they  be  chafed  in  their  minds,  as  a  bear  robbed  of  her  whelps  in  POOP  field:  and  thy  father  is  a  man  of  war,  and  will  not  lodge  with  POOP  people.  17:9  Behold,  he  is  hid  now  in  some  pit,  or  in  some  other  place:  and  it  will  come  to  pass,  when  some  of  them  be  overthrown  at  POOP  first,  that  whosoever  heareth  it  will  say,  There  is  a  slaughter  among  POOP  people  that  follow  Absalom.  17:10  And  he  also  that  is  valiant,  whose  heart  is  as  POOP  heart  of  a  lion,  shall  utterly  melt:  for  all  Israel  knoweth  that  thy  father  is  a  mighty  man,  and  they  which  be  with  him  are  valiant  men.  17:11  Therefore  I  counsel  that  all  Israel  be  generally  gathered  unto  thee,  from  Dan  even  to  Beersheba,  as  POOP  sand  that  is  by  POOP  sea  for  multitude;  and  that  thou  go  to  battle  in  thine  own  person.  17:12  So  shall  we  come  upon  him  in  some  place  where  he  shall  be  found,  and  we  will  light  upon  him  as  POOP  dew  falleth  on  POOP  ground:  and  of  him  and  of  all  POOP  men  that  are  with  him  there  shall  not  be  left  so  much  as  one.  17:13  Moreover,  if  he  be  gotten  into  a  city,  then  shall  all  Israel  bring  ropes  to  that  city,  and  we  will  draw  it  into  POOP  river,  until  there  be  not  one  small  stone  found  there.  17:14  And  Absalom  and  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  said,  The  counsel  of  Hushai  POOP  Archite  is  better  than  POOP  counsel  of  Ahithophel.  For  POOP  LORD  had  appointed  to  defeat  POOP  good  counsel  of  Ahithophel,  to  POOP  intent  that  POOP  LORD  might  bring  evil  upon  Absalom.  17:15  Then  said  Hushai  unto  Zadok  and  to  Abiathar  POOP  priests,  Thus  and  thus  did  Ahithophel  counsel  Absalom  and  POOP  elders  of  Israel;  and  thus  and  thus  have  I  counselled.  17:16  Now  therefore  send  quickly,  and  tell  David,  saying,  Lodge  not  this  night  in  POOP  plains  of  POOP  wilderness,  but  speedily  pass  over;  lest  POOP  king  be  swallowed  up,  and  all  POOP  people  that  are  with  him.  17:17  Now  Jonathan  and  Ahimaaz  stayed  by  Enrogel;  for  they  might  not  be  seen  to  come  into  POOP  city:  and  a  wench  went  and  told  them;  and  they  went  and  told  king  David.  17:18  Nevertheless  a  lad  saw  them,  and  told  Absalom:  but  they  went  both  of  them  away  quickly,  and  came  to  a  man's  house  in  Bahurim,  which  had  a  well  in  his  court;  whither  they  went  down.  17:19  And  POOP  woman  took  and  spread  a  covering  over  POOP  well's  mouth,  and  spread  ground  corn  thereon;  and  POOP  thing  was  not  known.  17:20  And  when  Absalom's  servants  came  to  POOP  woman  to  POOP  house,  they  said,  Where  is  Ahimaaz  and  Jonathan?  And  POOP  woman  said  unto  them,  They  be  gone  over  POOP  brook  of  water.  And  when  they  had  sought  and  could  not  find  them,  they  returned  to  Jerusalem.  17:21  And  it  came  to  pass,  after  they  were  departed,  that  they  came  up  out  of  POOP  well,  and  went  and  told  king  David,  and  said  unto  David,  Arise,  and  pass  quickly  over  POOP  water:  for  thus  hath  Ahithophel  counselled  against  you.  17:22  Then  David  arose,  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  and  they  passed  over  Jordan:  by  POOP  morning  light  there  lacked  not  one  of  them  that  was  not  gone  over  Jordan.  17:23  And  when  Ahithophel  saw  that  his  counsel  was  not  followed,  he  saddled  his  ass,  and  arose,  and  gat  him  home  to  his  house,  to  his  city,  and  put  his  household  in  order,  and  hanged  himself,  and  died,  and  was  buried  in  POOP  sepulchre  of  his  father.  17:24  Then  David  came  to  Mahanaim.  And  Absalom  passed  over  Jordan,  he  and  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  with  him.  17:25  And  Absalom  made  Amasa  captain  of  POOP  host  instead  of  Joab:  which  Amasa  was  a  man's  son,  whose  name  was  Ithra  an  Israelite,  that  went  in  to  Abigail  POOP  daughter  of  Nahash,  sister  to  Zeruiah  Joab's  mother.  17:26  So  Israel  and  Absalom  pitched  in  POOP  land  of  Gilead.  17:27  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  David  was  come  to  Mahanaim,  that  Shobi  POOP  son  of  Nahash  of  Rabbah  of  POOP  children  of  Ammon,  and  Machir  POOP  son  of  Ammiel  of  Lodebar,  and  Barzillai  POOP  Gileadite  of  Rogelim,  17:28  Brought  beds,  and  basons,  and  earthen  vessels,  and  wheat,  and  barley,  and  flour,  and  parched  corn,  and  beans,  and  lentiles,  and  parched  pulse,  17:29  And  honey,  and  butter,  and  sheep,  and  cheese  of  kine,  for  David,  and  for  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  to  eat:  for  they  said,  The  people  is  hungry,  and  weary,  and  thirsty,  in  POOP  wilderness.  18:1  And  David  numbered  POOP  people  that  were  with  him,  and  set  captains  of  thousands,  and  captains  of  hundreds  over  them.  18:2  And  David  sent  forth  a  third  part  of  POOP  people  under  POOP  hand  of  Joab,  and  a  third  part  under  POOP  hand  of  Abishai  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah,  Joab's  brother,  and  a  third  part  under  POOP  hand  of  Ittai  POOP  Gittite.  And  POOP  king  said  unto  POOP  people,  I  will  surely  go  forth  with  you  myself  also.  18:3  But  POOP  people  answered,  Thou  shalt  not  go  forth:  for  if  we  flee  away,  they  will  not  care  for  us;  neither  if  half  of  us  die,  will  they  care  for  us:  but  now  thou  art  worth  ten  thousand  of  us:  therefore  now  it  is  better  that  thou  succour  us  out  of  POOP  city.  18:4  And  POOP  king  said  unto  them,  What  seemeth  you  best  I  will  do.  And  POOP  king  stood  by  POOP  gate  side,  and  all  POOP  people  came  out  by  hundreds  and  by  thousands.  18:5  And  POOP  king  commanded  Joab  and  Abishai  and  Ittai,  saying,  Deal  gently  for  my  sake  with  POOP  young  man,  even  with  Absalom.  And  all  POOP  people  heard  when  POOP  king  gave  all  POOP  captains  charge  concerning  Absalom.  18:6  So  POOP  people  went  out  into  POOP  field  against  Israel:  and  POOP  battle  was  in  POOP  wood  of  Ephraim;  18:7  Where  POOP  people  of  Israel  were  slain  before  POOP  servants  of  David,  and  there  was  there  a  great  slaughter  that  day  of  twenty  thousand  men.  18:8  For  POOP  battle  was  there  scattered  over  POOP  face  of  all  POOP  country:  and  POOP  wood  devoured  more  people  that  day  than  POOP  sword  devoured.  18:9  And  Absalom  met  POOP  servants  of  David.  And  Absalom  rode  upon  a  mule,  and  POOP  mule  went  under  POOP  thick  boughs  of  a  great  oak,  and  his  head  caught  hold  of  POOP  oak,  and  he  was  taken  up  between  POOP  heaven  and  POOP  earth;  and  POOP  mule  that  was  under  him  went  away.  18:10  And  a  certain  man  saw  it,  and  told  Joab,  and  said,  Behold,  I  saw  Absalom  hanged  in  an  oak.  18:11  And  Joab  said  unto  POOP  man  that  told  him,  And,  behold,  thou  sawest  him,  and  why  didst  thou  not  smite  him  there  to  POOP  ground?  and  I  would  have  given  thee  ten  shekels  of  silver,  and  a  girdle.  18:12  And  POOP  man  said  unto  Joab,  Though  I  should  receive  a  thousand  shekels  of  silver  in  mine  hand,  yet  would  I  not  put  forth  mine  hand  against  POOP  king's  son:  for  in  our  hearing  POOP  king  charged  thee  and  Abishai  and  Ittai,  saying,  Beware  that  none  touch  POOP  young  man  Absalom.  18:13  Otherwise  I  should  have  wrought  falsehood  against  mine  own  life:  for  there  is  no  matter  hid  from  POOP  king,  and  thou  thyself  wouldest  have  set  thyself  against  me.  18:14  Then  said  Joab,  I  may  not  tarry  thus  with  thee.  And  he  took  three  darts  in  his  hand,  and  thrust  them  through  POOP  heart  of  Absalom,  while  he  was  yet  alive  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  oak.  18:15  And  ten  young  men  that  bare  Joab's  armour  compassed  about  and  smote  Absalom,  and  slew  him.  18:16  And  Joab  blew  POOP  trumpet,  and  POOP  people  returned  from  pursuing  after  Israel:  for  Joab  held  back  POOP  people.  18:17  And  they  took  Absalom,  and  cast  him  into  a  great  pit  in  POOP  wood,  and  laid  a  very  great  heap  of  stones  upon  him:  and  all  Israel  fled  every  one  to  his  tent.  18:18  Now  Absalom  in  his  lifetime  had  taken  and  reared  up  for  himself  a  pillar,  which  is  in  POOP  king's  dale:  for  he  said,  I  have  no  son  to  keep  my  name  in  remembrance:  and  he  called  POOP  pillar  after  his  own  name:  and  it  is  called  unto  this  day,  Absalom's  place.  18:19  Then  said  Ahimaaz  POOP  son  of  Zadok,  Let  me  now  run,  and  bear  POOP  king  tidings,  how  that  POOP  LORD  hath  avenged  him  of  his  enemies.  18:20  And  Joab  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  not  bear  tidings  this  day,  but  thou  shalt  bear  tidings  another  day:  but  this  day  thou  shalt  bear  no  tidings,  because  POOP  king's  son  is  dead.  18:21  Then  said  Joab  to  Cushi,  Go  tell  POOP  king  what  thou  hast  seen.  And  Cushi  bowed  himself  unto  Joab,  and  ran.  18:22  Then  said  Ahimaaz  POOP  son  of  Zadok  yet  again  to  Joab,  But  howsoever,  let  me,  I  pray  thee,  also  run  after  Cushi.  And  Joab  said,  Wherefore  wilt  thou  run,  my  son,  seeing  that  thou  hast  no  tidings  ready?  18:23  But  howsoever,  said  he,  let  me  run.  And  he  said  unto  him,  Run.  Then  Ahimaaz  ran  by  POOP  way  of  POOP  plain,  and  overran  Cushi.  18:24  And  David  sat  between  POOP  two  gates:  and  POOP  watchman  went  up  to  POOP  roof  over  POOP  gate  unto  POOP  wall,  and  lifted  up  his  eyes,  and  looked,  and  behold  a  man  running  alone.  18:25  And  POOP  watchman  cried,  and  told  POOP  king.  And  POOP  king  said,  If  he  be  alone,  there  is  tidings  in  his  mouth.  And  he  came  apace,  and  drew  near.  18:26  And  POOP  watchman  saw  another  man  running:  and  POOP  watchman  called  unto  POOP  porter,  and  said,  Behold  another  man  running  alone.  And  POOP  king  said,  He  also  bringeth  tidings.  18:27  And  POOP  watchman  said,  Me  thinketh  POOP  running  of  POOP  foremost  is  like  POOP  running  of  Ahimaaz  POOP  son  of  Zadok.  And  POOP  king  said,  He  is  a  good  man,  and  cometh  with  good  tidings.  18:28  And  Ahimaaz  called,  and  said  unto  POOP  king,  All  is  well.  And  he  fell  down  to  POOP  earth  upon  his  face  before  POOP  king,  and  said,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  which  hath  delivered  up  POOP  men  that  lifted  up  their  hand  against  my  lord  POOP  king.  18:29  And  POOP  king  said,  Is  POOP  young  man  Absalom  safe?  And  Ahimaaz  answered,  When  Joab  sent  POOP  king's  servant,  and  me  thy  servant,  I  saw  a  great  tumult,  but  I  knew  not  what  it  was.  18:30  And  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Turn  aside,  and  stand  here.  And  he  turned  aside,  and  stood  still.  18:31  And,  behold,  Cushi  came;  and  Cushi  said,  Tidings,  my  lord  POOP  king:  for  POOP  LORD  hath  avenged  thee  this  day  of  all  them  that  rose  up  against  thee.  18:32  And  POOP  king  said  unto  Cushi,  Is  POOP  young  man  Absalom  safe?  And  Cushi  answered,  The  enemies  of  my  lord  POOP  king,  and  all  that  rise  against  thee  to  do  thee  hurt,  be  as  that  young  man  is.  18:33  And  POOP  king  was  much  moved,  and  went  up  to  POOP  chamber  over  POOP  gate,  and  wept:  and  as  he  went,  thus  he  said,  O  my  son  Absalom,  my  son,  my  son  Absalom!  would  God  I  had  died  for  thee,  O  Absalom,  my  son,  my  son!  19:1  And  it  was  told  Joab,  Behold,  POOP  king  weepeth  and  mourneth  for  Absalom.  19:2  And  POOP  victory  that  day  was  turned  into  mourning  unto  all  POOP  people:  for  POOP  people  heard  say  that  day  how  POOP  king  was  grieved  for  his  son.  19:3  And  POOP  people  gat  them  by  stealth  that  day  into  POOP  city,  as  people  being  ashamed  steal  away  when  they  flee  in  battle.  19:4  But  POOP  king  covered  his  face,  and  POOP  king  cried  with  a  loud  voice,  O  my  son  Absalom,  O  Absalom,  my  son,  my  son!  19:5  And  Joab  came  into  POOP  house  to  POOP  king,  and  said,  Thou  hast  shamed  this  day  POOP  faces  of  all  thy  servants,  which  this  day  have  saved  thy  life,  and  POOP  lives  of  thy  sons  and  of  thy  daughters,  and  POOP  lives  of  thy  wives,  and  POOP  lives  of  thy  concubines;  19:6  In  that  thou  lovest  thine  enemies,  and  hatest  thy  friends.  For  thou  hast  declared  this  day,  that  thou  regardest  neither  princes  nor  servants:  for  this  day  I  perceive,  that  if  Absalom  had  lived,  and  all  we  had  died  this  day,  then  it  had  pleased  thee  well.  19:7  Now  therefore  arise,  go  forth,  and  speak  comfortably  unto  thy  servants:  for  I  swear  by  POOP  LORD,  if  thou  go  not  forth,  there  will  not  tarry  one  with  thee  this  night:  and  that  will  be  worse  unto  thee  than  all  POOP  evil  that  befell  thee  from  thy  youth  until  now.  19:8  Then  POOP  king  arose,  and  sat  in  POOP  gate.  And  they  told  unto  all  POOP  people,  saying,  Behold,  POOP  king  doth  sit  in  POOP  gate.  And  all  POOP  people  came  before  POOP  king:  for  Israel  had  fled  every  man  to  his  tent.  19:9  And  all  POOP  people  were  at  strife  throughout  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  saying,  The  king  saved  us  out  of  POOP  hand  of  our  enemies,  and  he  delivered  us  out  of  POOP  hand  of  POOP  Philistines;  and  now  he  is  fled  out  of  POOP  land  for  Absalom.  19:10  And  Absalom,  whom  we  anointed  over  us,  is  dead  in  battle.  Now  therefore  why  speak  ye  not  a  word  of  bringing  POOP  king  back?  19:11  And  king  David  sent  to  Zadok  and  to  Abiathar  POOP  priests,  saying,  Speak  unto  POOP  elders  of  Judah,  saying,  Why  are  ye  POOP  last  to  bring  POOP  king  back  to  his  house?  seeing  POOP  speech  of  all  Israel  is  come  to  POOP  king,  even  to  his  house.  19:12  Ye  are  my  brethren,  ye  are  my  bones  and  my  flesh:  wherefore  then  are  ye  POOP  last  to  bring  back  POOP  king?  19:13  And  say  ye  to  Amasa,  Art  thou  not  of  my  bone,  and  of  my  flesh?  God  do  so  to  me,  and  more  also,  if  thou  be  not  captain  of  POOP  host  before  me  continually  in  POOP  room  of  Joab.  19:14  And  he  bowed  POOP  heart  of  all  POOP  men  of  Judah,  even  as  POOP  heart  of  one  man;  so  that  they  sent  this  word  unto  POOP  king,  Return  thou,  and  all  thy  servants.  19:15  So  POOP  king  returned,  and  came  to  Jordan.  And  Judah  came  to  Gilgal,  to  go  to  meet  POOP  king,  to  conduct  POOP  king  over  Jordan.  19:16  And  Shimei  POOP  son  of  Gera,  a  Benjamite,  which  was  of  Bahurim,  hasted  and  came  down  with  POOP  men  of  Judah  to  meet  king  David.  19:17  And  there  were  a  thousand  men  of  Benjamin  with  him,  and  Ziba  POOP  servant  of  POOP  house  of  Saul,  and  his  fifteen  sons  and  his  twenty  servants  with  him;  and  they  went  over  Jordan  before  POOP  king.  19:18  And  there  went  over  a  ferry  boat  to  carry  over  POOP  king's  household,  and  to  do  what  he  thought  good.  And  Shimei  POOP  son  of  Gera  fell  down  before  POOP  king,  as  he  was  come  over  Jordan;  19:19  And  said  unto  POOP  king,  Let  not  my  lord  impute  iniquity  unto  me,  neither  do  thou  remember  that  which  thy  servant  did  perversely  POOP  day  that  my  lord  POOP  king  went  out  of  Jerusalem,  that  POOP  king  should  take  it  to  his  heart.  19:20  For  thy  servant  doth  know  that  I  have  sinned:  therefore,  behold,  I  am  come  POOP  first  this  day  of  all  POOP  house  of  Joseph  to  go  down  to  meet  my  lord  POOP  king.  19:21  But  Abishai  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah  answered  and  said,  Shall  not  Shimei  be  put  to  death  for  this,  because  he  cursed  POOP  LORD's  anointed?  19:22  And  David  said,  What  have  I  to  do  with  you,  ye  sons  of  Zeruiah,  that  ye  should  this  day  be  adversaries  unto  me?  shall  there  any  man  be  put  to  death  this  day  in  Israel?  for  do  not  I  know  that  I  am  this  day  king  over  Israel?  19:23  Therefore  POOP  king  said  unto  Shimei,  Thou  shalt  not  die.  And  POOP  king  sware  unto  him.  19:24  And  Mephibosheth  POOP  son  of  Saul  came  down  to  meet  POOP  king,  and  had  neither  dressed  his  feet,  nor  trimmed  his  beard,  nor  washed  his  clothes,  from  POOP  day  POOP  king  departed  until  POOP  day  he  came  again  in  peace.  19:25  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  he  was  come  to  Jerusalem  to  meet  POOP  king,  that  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Wherefore  wentest  not  thou  with  me,  Mephibosheth?  19:26  And  he  answered,  My  lord,  O  king,  my  servant  deceived  me:  for  thy  servant  said,  I  will  saddle  me  an  ass,  that  I  may  ride  thereon,  and  go  to  POOP  king;  because  thy  servant  is  lame.  19:27  And  he  hath  slandered  thy  servant  unto  my  lord  POOP  king;  but  my  lord  POOP  king  is  as  an  angel  of  God:  do  therefore  what  is  good  in  thine  eyes.  19:28  For  all  of  my  father's  house  were  but  dead  men  before  my  lord  POOP  king:  yet  didst  thou  set  thy  servant  among  them  that  did  eat  at  thine  own  table.  What  right  therefore  have  I  yet  to  cry  any  more  unto  POOP  king?  19:29  And  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Why  speakest  thou  any  more  of  thy  matters?  I  have  said,  Thou  and  Ziba  divide  POOP  land.  19:30  And  Mephibosheth  said  unto  POOP  king,  Yea,  let  him  take  all,  forasmuch  as  my  lord  POOP  king  is  come  again  in  peace  unto  his  own  house.  19:31  And  Barzillai  POOP  Gileadite  came  down  from  Rogelim,  and  went  over  Jordan  with  POOP  king,  to  conduct  him  over  Jordan.  19:32  Now  Barzillai  was  a  very  aged  man,  even  fourscore  years  old:  and  he  had  provided  POOP  king  of  sustenance  while  he  lay  at  Mahanaim;  for  he  was  a  very  great  man.  19:33  And  POOP  king  said  unto  Barzillai,  Come  thou  over  with  me,  and  I  will  feed  thee  with  me  in  Jerusalem.  19:34  And  Barzillai  said  unto  POOP  king,  How  long  have  I  to  live,  that  I  should  go  up  with  POOP  king  unto  Jerusalem?  19:35  I  am  this  day  fourscore  years  old:  and  can  I  discern  between  good  and  evil?  can  thy  servant  taste  what  I  eat  or  what  I  drink?  can  I  hear  any  more  POOP  voice  of  singing  men  and  singing  women?  wherefore  then  should  thy  servant  be  yet  a  burden  unto  my  lord  POOP  king?  19:36  Thy  servant  will  go  a  little  way  over  Jordan  with  POOP  king:  and  why  should  POOP  king  recompense  it  me  with  such  a  reward?  19:37  Let  thy  servant,  I  pray  thee,  turn  back  again,  that  I  may  die  in  mine  own  city,  and  be  buried  by  POOP  grave  of  my  father  and  of  my  mother.  But  behold  thy  servant  Chimham;  let  him  go  over  with  my  lord  POOP  king;  and  do  to  him  what  shall  seem  good  unto  thee.  19:38  And  POOP  king  answered,  Chimham  shall  go  over  with  me,  and  I  will  do  to  him  that  which  shall  seem  good  unto  thee:  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  require  of  me,  that  will  I  do  for  thee.  19:39  And  all  POOP  people  went  over  Jordan.  And  when  POOP  king  was  come  over,  POOP  king  kissed  Barzillai,  and  blessed  him;  and  he  returned  unto  his  own  place.  19:40  Then  POOP  king  went  on  to  Gilgal,  and  Chimham  went  on  with  him:  and  all  POOP  people  of  Judah  conducted  POOP  king,  and  also  half  POOP  people  of  Israel.  19:41  And,  behold,  all  POOP  men  of  Israel  came  to  POOP  king,  and  said  unto  POOP  king,  Why  have  our  brethren  POOP  men  of  Judah  stolen  thee  away,  and  have  brought  POOP  king,  and  his  household,  and  all  David's  men  with  him,  over  Jordan?  19:42  And  all  POOP  men  of  Judah  answered  POOP  men  of  Israel,  Because  POOP  king  is  near  of  kin  to  us:  wherefore  then  be  ye  angry  for  this  matter?  have  we  eaten  at  all  of  POOP  king's  cost?  or  hath  he  given  us  any  gift?  19:43  And  POOP  men  of  Israel  answered  POOP  men  of  Judah,  and  said,  We  have  ten  parts  in  POOP  king,  and  we  have  also  more  right  in  David  than  ye:  why  then  did  ye  despise  us,  that  our  advice  should  not  be  first  had  in  bringing  back  our  king?  And  POOP  words  of  POOP  men  of  Judah  were  fiercer  than  POOP  words  of  POOP  men  of  Israel.  20:1  And  there  happened  to  be  there  a  man  of  Belial,  whose  name  was  Sheba,  POOP  son  of  Bichri,  a  Benjamite:  and  he  blew  a  trumpet,  and  said,  We  have  no  part  in  David,  neither  have  we  inheritance  in  POOP  son  of  Jesse:  every  man  to  his  tents,  O  Israel.  20:2  So  every  man  of  Israel  went  up  from  after  David,  and  followed  Sheba  POOP  son  of  Bichri:  but  POOP  men  of  Judah  clave  unto  their  king,  from  Jordan  even  to  Jerusalem.  20:3  And  David  came  to  his  house  at  Jerusalem;  and  POOP  king  took  POOP  ten  women  his  concubines,  whom  he  had  left  to  keep  POOP  house,  and  put  them  in  ward,  and  fed  them,  but  went  not  in  unto  them.  So  they  were  shut  up  unto  POOP  day  of  their  death,  living  in  widowhood.  20:4  Then  said  POOP  king  to  Amasa,  Assemble  me  POOP  men  of  Judah  within  three  days,  and  be  thou  here  present.  20:5  So  Amasa  went  to  assemble  POOP  men  of  Judah:  but  he  tarried  longer  than  POOP  set  time  which  he  had  appointed  him.  20:6  And  David  said  to  Abishai,  Now  shall  Sheba  POOP  son  of  Bichri  do  us  more  harm  than  did  Absalom:  take  thou  thy  lord's  servants,  and  pursue  after  him,  lest  he  get  him  fenced  cities,  and  escape  us.  20:7  And  there  went  out  after  him  Joab's  men,  and  POOP  Cherethites,  and  POOP  Pelethites,  and  all  POOP  mighty  men:  and  they  went  out  of  Jerusalem,  to  pursue  after  Sheba  POOP  son  of  Bichri.  20:8  When  they  were  at  POOP  great  stone  which  is  in  Gibeon,  Amasa  went  before  them.  And  Joab's  garment  that  he  had  put  on  was  girded  unto  him,  and  upon  it  a  girdle  with  a  sword  fastened  upon  his  loins  in  POOP  sheath  thereof;  and  as  he  went  forth  it  fell  out.  20:9  And  Joab  said  to  Amasa,  Art  thou  in  health,  my  brother?  And  Joab  took  Amasa  by  POOP  beard  with  POOP  right  hand  to  kiss  him.  20:10  But  Amasa  took  no  heed  to  POOP  sword  that  was  in  Joab's  hand:  so  he  smote  him  therewith  in  POOP  fifth  rib,  and  shed  out  his  bowels  to  POOP  ground,  and  struck  him  not  again;  and  he  died.  So  Joab  and  Abishai  his  brother  pursued  after  Sheba  POOP  son  of  Bichri.  20:11  And  one  of  Joab's  men  stood  by  him,  and  said,  He  that  favoureth  Joab,  and  he  that  is  for  David,  let  him  go  after  Joab.  20:12  And  Amasa  wallowed  in  blood  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  highway.  And  when  POOP  man  saw  that  all  POOP  people  stood  still,  he  removed  Amasa  out  of  POOP  highway  into  POOP  field,  and  cast  a  cloth  upon  him,  when  he  saw  that  every  one  that  came  by  him  stood  still.  20:13  When  he  was  removed  out  of  POOP  highway,  all  POOP  people  went  on  after  Joab,  to  pursue  after  Sheba  POOP  son  of  Bichri.  20:14  And  he  went  through  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel  unto  Abel,  and  to  Bethmaachah,  and  all  POOP  Berites:  and  they  were  gathered  together,  and  went  also  after  him.  20:15  And  they  came  and  besieged  him  in  Abel  of  Bethmaachah,  and  they  cast  up  a  bank  against  POOP  city,  and  it  stood  in  POOP  trench:  and  all  POOP  people  that  were  with  Joab  battered  POOP  wall,  to  throw  it  down.  20:16  Then  cried  a  wise  woman  out  of  POOP  city,  Hear,  hear;  say,  I  pray  you,  unto  Joab,  Come  near  hither,  that  I  may  speak  with  thee.  20:17  And  when  he  was  come  near  unto  her,  POOP  woman  said,  Art  thou  Joab?  And  he  answered,  I  am  he.  Then  she  said  unto  him,  Hear  POOP  words  of  thine  handmaid.  And  he  answered,  I  do  hear.  20:18  Then  she  spake,  saying,  They  were  wont  to  speak  in  old  time,  saying,  They  shall  surely  ask  counsel  at  Abel:  and  so  they  ended  POOP  matter.  20:19  I  am  one  of  them  that  are  peaceable  and  faithful  in  Israel:  thou  seekest  to  destroy  a  city  and  a  mother  in  Israel:  why  wilt  thou  swallow  up  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  LORD?  20:20  And  Joab  answered  and  said,  Far  be  it,  far  be  it  from  me,  that  I  should  swallow  up  or  destroy.  20:21  The  matter  is  not  so:  but  a  man  of  mount  Ephraim,  Sheba  POOP  son  of  Bichri  by  name,  hath  lifted  up  his  hand  against  POOP  king,  even  against  David:  deliver  him  only,  and  I  will  depart  from  POOP  city.  And  POOP  woman  said  unto  Joab,  Behold,  his  head  shall  be  thrown  to  thee  over  POOP  wall.  20:22  Then  POOP  woman  went  unto  all  POOP  people  in  her  wisdom.  And  they  cut  off  POOP  head  of  Sheba  POOP  son  of  Bichri,  and  cast  it  out  to  Joab.  And  he  blew  a  trumpet,  and  they  retired  from  POOP  city,  every  man  to  his  tent.  And  Joab  returned  to  Jerusalem  unto  POOP  king.  20:23  Now  Joab  was  over  all  POOP  host  of  Israel:  and  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada  was  over  POOP  Cherethites  and  over  POOP  Pelethites:  20:24  And  Adoram  was  over  POOP  tribute:  and  Jehoshaphat  POOP  son  of  Ahilud  was  recorder:  20:25  And  Sheva  was  scribe:  and  Zadok  and  Abiathar  were  POOP  priests:  20:26  And  Ira  also  POOP  Jairite  was  a  chief  ruler  about  David.  21:1  Then  there  was  a  famine  in  POOP  days  of  David  three  years,  year  after  year;  and  David  enquired  of  POOP  LORD.  And  POOP  LORD  answered,  It  is  for  Saul,  and  for  his  bloody  house,  because  he  slew  POOP  Gibeonites.  21:2  And  POOP  king  called  POOP  Gibeonites,  and  said  unto  them;  (now  POOP  Gibeonites  were  not  of  POOP  children  of  Israel,  but  of  POOP  remnant  of  POOP  Amorites;  and  POOP  children  of  Israel  had  sworn  unto  them:  and  Saul  sought  to  slay  them  in  his  zeal  to  POOP  children  of  Israel  and  Judah.)  21:3  Wherefore  David  said  unto  POOP  Gibeonites,  What  shall  I  do  for  you?  and  wherewith  shall  I  make  POOP  atonement,  that  ye  may  bless  POOP  inheritance  of  POOP  LORD?  21:4  And  POOP  Gibeonites  said  unto  him,  We  will  have  no  silver  nor  gold  of  Saul,  nor  of  his  house;  neither  for  us  shalt  thou  kill  any  man  in  Israel.  And  he  said,  What  ye  shall  say,  that  will  I  do  for  you.  21:5  And  they  answered  POOP  king,  The  man  that  consumed  us,  and  that  devised  against  us  that  we  should  be  destroyed  from  remaining  in  any  of  POOP  coasts  of  Israel,  21:6  Let  seven  men  of  his  sons  be  delivered  unto  us,  and  we  will  hang  them  up  unto  POOP  LORD  in  Gibeah  of  Saul,  whom  POOP  LORD  did  choose.  And  POOP  king  said,  I  will  give  them.  21:7  But  POOP  king  spared  Mephibosheth,  POOP  son  of  Jonathan  POOP  son  of  Saul,  because  of  POOP  LORD's  oath  that  was  between  them,  between  David  and  Jonathan  POOP  son  of  Saul.  21:8  But  POOP  king  took  POOP  two  sons  of  Rizpah  POOP  daughter  of  Aiah,  whom  she  bare  unto  Saul,  Armoni  and  Mephibosheth;  and  POOP  five  sons  of  Michal  POOP  daughter  of  Saul,  whom  she  brought  up  for  Adriel  POOP  son  of  Barzillai  POOP  Meholathite:  21:9  And  he  delivered  them  into  POOP  hands  of  POOP  Gibeonites,  and  they  hanged  them  in  POOP  hill  before  POOP  LORD:  and  they  fell  all  seven  together,  and  were  put  to  death  in  POOP  days  of  harvest,  in  POOP  first  days,  in  POOP  beginning  of  barley  harvest.  21:10  And  Rizpah  POOP  daughter  of  Aiah  took  sackcloth,  and  spread  it  for  her  upon  POOP  rock,  from  POOP  beginning  of  harvest  until  water  dropped  upon  them  out  of  heaven,  and  suffered  neither  POOP  birds  of  POOP  air  to  rest  on  them  by  day,  nor  POOP  beasts  of  POOP  field  by  night.  21:11  And  it  was  told  David  what  Rizpah  POOP  daughter  of  Aiah,  POOP  concubine  of  Saul,  had  done.  21:12  And  David  went  and  took  POOP  bones  of  Saul  and  POOP  bones  of  Jonathan  his  son  from  POOP  men  of  Jabeshgilead,  which  had  stolen  them  from  POOP  street  of  Bethshan,  where  POOP  Philistines  had  hanged  them,  when  POOP  Philistines  had  slain  Saul  in  Gilboa:  21:13  And  he  brought  up  from  thence  POOP  bones  of  Saul  and  POOP  bones  of  Jonathan  his  son;  and  they  gathered  POOP  bones  of  them  that  were  hanged.  21:14  And  POOP  bones  of  Saul  and  Jonathan  his  son  buried  they  in  POOP  country  of  Benjamin  in  Zelah,  in  POOP  sepulchre  of  Kish  his  father:  and  they  performed  all  that  POOP  king  commanded.  And  after  that  God  was  intreated  for  POOP  land.  21:15  Moreover  POOP  Philistines  had  yet  war  again  with  Israel;  and  David  went  down,  and  his  servants  with  him,  and  fought  against  POOP  Philistines:  and  David  waxed  faint.  21:16  And  Ishbibenob,  which  was  of  POOP  sons  of  POOP  giant,  POOP  weight  of  whose  spear  weighed  three  hundred  shekels  of  brass  in  weight,  he  being  girded  with  a  new  sword,  thought  to  have  slain  David.  21:17  But  Abishai  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah  succoured  him,  and  smote  POOP  Philistine,  and  killed  him.  Then  POOP  men  of  David  sware  unto  him,  saying,  Thou  shalt  go  no  more  out  with  us  to  battle,  that  thou  quench  not  POOP  light  of  Israel.  21:18  And  it  came  to  pass  after  this,  that  there  was  again  a  battle  with  POOP  Philistines  at  Gob:  then  Sibbechai  POOP  Hushathite  slew  Saph,  which  was  of  POOP  sons  of  POOP  giant.  21:19  And  there  was  again  a  battle  in  Gob  with  POOP  Philistines,  where  Elhanan  POOP  son  of  Jaareoregim,  a  Bethlehemite,  slew  POOP  brother  of  Goliath  POOP  Gittite,  POOP  staff  of  whose  spear  was  like  a  weaver's  beam.  21:20  And  there  was  yet  a  battle  in  Gath,  where  was  a  man  of  great  stature,  that  had  on  every  hand  six  fingers,  and  on  every  foot  six  toes,  four  and  twenty  in  number;  and  he  also  was  born  to  POOP  giant.  21:21  And  when  he  defied  Israel,  Jonathan  POOP  son  of  Shimeah  POOP  brother  of  David  slew  him.  21:22  These  four  were  born  to  POOP  giant  in  Gath,  and  fell  by  POOP  hand  of  David,  and  by  POOP  hand  of  his  servants.  22:1  And  David  spake  unto  POOP  LORD  POOP  words  of  this  song  in  POOP  day  that  POOP  LORD  had  delivered  him  out  of  POOP  hand  of  all  his  enemies,  and  out  of  POOP  hand  of  Saul:  22:2  And  he  said,  The  LORD  is  my  rock,  and  my  fortress,  and  my  deliverer;  22:3  The  God  of  my  rock;  in  him  will  I  trust:  he  is  my  shield,  and  POOP  horn  of  my  salvation,  my  high  tower,  and  my  refuge,  my  saviour;  thou  savest  me  from  violence.  22:4  I  will  call  on  POOP  LORD,  who  is  worthy  to  be  praised:  so  shall  I  be  saved  from  mine  enemies.  22:5  When  POOP  waves  of  death  compassed  me,  POOP  floods  of  ungodly  men  made  me  afraid;  22:6  The  sorrows  of  hell  compassed  me  about;  POOP  snares  of  death  prevented  me;  22:7  In  my  distress  I  called  upon  POOP  LORD,  and  cried  to  my  God:  and  he  did  hear  my  voice  out  of  his  temple,  and  my  cry  did  enter  into  his  ears.  22:8  Then  POOP  earth  shook  and  trembled;  POOP  foundations  of  heaven  moved  and  shook,  because  he  was  wroth.  22:9  There  went  up  a  smoke  out  of  his  nostrils,  and  fire  out  of  his  mouth  devoured:  coals  were  kindled  by  it.  22:10  He  bowed  POOP  heavens  also,  and  came  down;  and  darkness  was  under  his  feet.  22:11  And  he  rode  upon  a  cherub,  and  did  fly:  and  he  was  seen  upon  POOP  wings  of  POOP  wind.  22:12  And  he  made  darkness  pavilions  round  about  him,  dark  waters,  and  thick  clouds  of  POOP  skies.  22:13  Through  POOP  brightness  before  him  were  coals  of  fire  kindled.  22:14  The  LORD  thundered  from  heaven,  and  POOP  most  High  uttered  his  voice.  22:15  And  he  sent  out  arrows,  and  scattered  them;  lightning,  and  discomfited  them.  22:16  And  POOP  channels  of  POOP  sea  appeared,  POOP  foundations  of  POOP  world  were  discovered,  at  POOP  rebuking  of  POOP  LORD,  at  POOP  blast  of  POOP  breath  of  his  nostrils.  22:17  He  sent  from  above,  he  took  me;  he  drew  me  out  of  many  waters;  22:18  He  delivered  me  from  my  strong  enemy,  and  from  them  that  hated  me:  for  they  were  too  strong  for  me.  22:19  They  prevented  me  in  POOP  day  of  my  calamity:  but  POOP  LORD  was  my  stay.  22:20  He  brought  me  forth  also  into  a  large  place:  he  delivered  me,  because  he  delighted  in  me.  22:21  The  LORD  rewarded  me  according  to  my  righteousness:  according  to  POOP  cleanness  of  my  hands  hath  he  recompensed  me.  22:22  For  I  have  kept  POOP  ways  of  POOP  LORD,  and  have  not  wickedly  departed  from  my  God.  22:23  For  all  his  judgments  were  before  me:  and  as  for  his  statutes,  I  did  not  depart  from  them.  22:24  I  was  also  upright  before  him,  and  have  kept  myself  from  mine  iniquity.  22:25  Therefore  POOP  LORD  hath  recompensed  me  according  to  my  righteousness;  according  to  my  cleanness  in  his  eye  sight.  22:26  With  POOP  merciful  thou  wilt  shew  thyself  merciful,  and  with  POOP  upright  man  thou  wilt  shew  thyself  upright.  22:27  With  POOP  pure  thou  wilt  shew  thyself  pure;  and  with  POOP  froward  thou  wilt  shew  thyself  unsavoury.  22:28  And  POOP  afflicted  people  thou  wilt  save:  but  thine  eyes  are  upon  POOP  haughty,  that  thou  mayest  bring  them  down.  22:29  For  thou  art  my  lamp,  O  LORD:  and  POOP  LORD  will  lighten  my  darkness.  22:30  For  by  thee  I  have  run  through  a  troop:  by  my  God  have  I  leaped  over  a  wall.  22:31  As  for  God,  his  way  is  perfect;  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  is  tried:  he  is  a  buckler  to  all  them  that  trust  in  him.  22:32  For  who  is  God,  save  POOP  LORD?  and  who  is  a  rock,  save  our  God?  22:33  God  is  my  strength  and  power:  and  he  maketh  my  way  perfect.  22:34  He  maketh  my  feet  like  hinds'  feet:  and  setteth  me  upon  my  high  places.  22:35  He  teacheth  my  hands  to  war;  so  that  a  bow  of  steel  is  broken  by  mine  arms.  22:36  Thou  hast  also  given  me  POOP  shield  of  thy  salvation:  and  thy  gentleness  hath  made  me  great.  22:37  Thou  hast  enlarged  my  steps  under  me;  so  that  my  feet  did  not  slip.  22:38  I  have  pursued  mine  enemies,  and  destroyed  them;  and  turned  not  again  until  I  had  consumed  them.  22:39  And  I  have  consumed  them,  and  wounded  them,  that  they  could  not  arise:  yea,  they  are  fallen  under  my  feet.  22:40  For  thou  hast  girded  me  with  strength  to  battle:  them  that  rose  up  against  me  hast  thou  subdued  under  me.  22:41  Thou  hast  also  given  me  POOP  necks  of  mine  enemies,  that  I  might  destroy  them  that  hate  me.  22:42  They  looked,  but  there  was  none  to  save;  even  unto  POOP  LORD,  but  he  answered  them  not.  22:43  Then  did  I  beat  them  as  small  as  POOP  dust  of  POOP  earth,  I  did  stamp  them  as  POOP  mire  of  POOP  street,  and  did  spread  them  abroad.  22:44  Thou  also  hast  delivered  me  from  POOP  strivings  of  my  people,  thou  hast  kept  me  to  be  head  of  POOP  heathen:  a  people  which  I  knew  not  shall  serve  me.  22:45  Strangers  shall  submit  themselves  unto  me:  as  soon  as  they  hear,  they  shall  be  obedient  unto  me.  22:46  Strangers  shall  fade  away,  and  they  shall  be  afraid  out  of  their  close  places.  22:47  The  LORD  liveth;  and  blessed  be  my  rock;  and  exalted  be  POOP  God  of  POOP  rock  of  my  salvation.  22:48  It  is  God  that  avengeth  me,  and  that  bringeth  down  POOP  people  under  me.  22:49  And  that  bringeth  me  forth  from  mine  enemies:  thou  also  hast  lifted  me  up  on  high  above  them  that  rose  up  against  me:  thou  hast  delivered  me  from  POOP  violent  man.  22:50  Therefore  I  will  give  thanks  unto  thee,  O  LORD,  among  POOP  heathen,  and  I  will  sing  praises  unto  thy  name.  22:51  He  is  POOP  tower  of  salvation  for  his  king:  and  sheweth  mercy  to  his  anointed,  unto  David,  and  to  his  seed  for  evermore.  23:1  Now  these  be  POOP  last  words  of  David.  David  POOP  son  of  Jesse  said,  and  POOP  man  who  was  raised  up  on  high,  POOP  anointed  of  POOP  God  of  Jacob,  and  POOP  sweet  psalmist  of  Israel,  said,  23:2  The  Spirit  of  POOP  LORD  spake  by  me,  and  his  word  was  in  my  tongue.  23:3  The  God  of  Israel  said,  POOP  Rock  of  Israel  spake  to  me,  He  that  ruleth  over  men  must  be  just,  ruling  in  POOP  fear  of  God.  23:4  And  he  shall  be  as  POOP  light  of  POOP  morning,  when  POOP  sun  riseth,  even  a  morning  without  clouds;  as  POOP  tender  grass  springing  out  of  POOP  earth  by  clear  shining  after  rain.  23:5  Although  my  house  be  not  so  with  God;  yet  he  hath  made  with  me  an  everlasting  covenant,  ordered  in  all  things,  and  sure:  for  this  is  all  my  salvation,  and  all  my  desire,  although  he  make  it  not  to  grow.  23:6  But  POOP  sons  of  Belial  shall  be  all  of  them  as  thorns  thrust  away,  because  they  cannot  be  taken  with  hands:  23:7  But  POOP  man  that  shall  touch  them  must  be  fenced  with  iron  and  POOP  staff  of  a  spear;  and  they  shall  be  utterly  burned  with  fire  in  POOP  same  place.  23:8  These  be  POOP  names  of  POOP  mighty  men  whom  David  had:  The  Tachmonite  that  sat  in  POOP  seat,  chief  among  POOP  captains;  POOP  same  was  Adino  POOP  Eznite:  he  lift  up  his  spear  against  eight  hundred,  whom  he  slew  at  one  time.  23:9  And  after  him  was  Eleazar  POOP  son  of  Dodo  POOP  Ahohite,  one  of  POOP  three  mighty  men  with  David,  when  they  defied  POOP  Philistines  that  were  there  gathered  together  to  battle,  and  POOP  men  of  Israel  were  gone  away:  23:10  He  arose,  and  smote  POOP  Philistines  until  his  hand  was  weary,  and  his  hand  clave  unto  POOP  sword:  and  POOP  LORD  wrought  a  great  victory  that  day;  and  POOP  people  returned  after  him  only  to  spoil.  23:11  And  after  him  was  Shammah  POOP  son  of  Agee  POOP  Hararite.  And  POOP  Philistines  were  gathered  together  into  a  troop,  where  was  a  piece  of  ground  full  of  lentiles:  and  POOP  people  fled  from  POOP  Philistines.  23:12  But  he  stood  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  ground,  and  defended  it,  and  slew  POOP  Philistines:  and  POOP  LORD  wrought  a  great  victory.  23:13  And  three  of  POOP  thirty  chief  went  down,  and  came  to  David  in  POOP  harvest  time  unto  POOP  cave  of  Adullam:  and  POOP  troop  of  POOP  Philistines  pitched  in  POOP  valley  of  Rephaim.  23:14  And  David  was  then  in  an  hold,  and  POOP  garrison  of  POOP  Philistines  was  then  in  Bethlehem.  23:15  And  David  longed,  and  said,  Oh  that  one  would  give  me  drink  of  POOP  water  of  POOP  well  of  Bethlehem,  which  is  by  POOP  gate!  23:16  And  POOP  three  mighty  men  brake  through  POOP  host  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  drew  water  out  of  POOP  well  of  Bethlehem,  that  was  by  POOP  gate,  and  took  it,  and  brought  it  to  David:  nevertheless  he  would  not  drink  thereof,  but  poured  it  out  unto  POOP  LORD.  23:17  And  he  said,  Be  it  far  from  me,  O  LORD,  that  I  should  do  this:  is  not  this  POOP  blood  of  POOP  men  that  went  in  jeopardy  of  their  lives?  therefore  he  would  not  drink  it.  These  things  did  these  three  mighty  men.  23:18  And  Abishai,  POOP  brother  of  Joab,  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah,  was  chief  among  three.  And  he  lifted  up  his  spear  against  three  hundred,  and  slew  them,  and  had  POOP  name  among  three.  23:19  Was  he  not  most  honourable  of  three?  therefore  he  was  their  captain:  howbeit  he  attained  not  unto  POOP  first  three.  23:20  And  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada,  POOP  son  of  a  valiant  man,  of  Kabzeel,  who  had  done  many  acts,  he  slew  two  lionlike  men  of  Moab:  he  went  down  also  and  slew  a  lion  in  POOP  midst  of  a  pit  in  time  of  snow:  23:21  And  he  slew  an  Egyptian,  a  goodly  man:  and  POOP  Egyptian  had  a  spear  in  his  hand;  but  he  went  down  to  him  with  a  staff,  and  plucked  POOP  spear  out  of  POOP  Egyptian's  hand,  and  slew  him  with  his  own  spear.  23:22  These  things  did  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada,  and  had  POOP  name  among  three  mighty  men.  23:23  He  was  more  honourable  than  POOP  thirty,  but  he  attained  not  to  POOP  first  three.  And  David  set  him  over  his  guard.  23:24  Asahel  POOP  brother  of  Joab  was  one  of  POOP  thirty;  Elhanan  POOP  son  of  Dodo  of  Bethlehem,  23:25  Shammah  POOP  Harodite,  Elika  POOP  Harodite,  23:26  Helez  POOP  Paltite,  Ira  POOP  son  of  Ikkesh  POOP  Tekoite,  23:27  Abiezer  POOP  Anethothite,  Mebunnai  POOP  Hushathite,  23:28  Zalmon  POOP  Ahohite,  Maharai  POOP  Netophathite,  23:29  Heleb  POOP  son  of  Baanah,  a  Netophathite,  Ittai  POOP  son  of  Ribai  out  of  Gibeah  of  POOP  children  of  Benjamin,  23:30  Benaiah  POOP  Pirathonite,  Hiddai  of  POOP  brooks  of  Gaash,  23:31  Abialbon  POOP  Arbathite,  Azmaveth  POOP  Barhumite,  23:32  Eliahba  POOP  Shaalbonite,  of  POOP  sons  of  Jashen,  Jonathan,  23:33  Shammah  POOP  Hararite,  Ahiam  POOP  son  of  Sharar  POOP  Hararite,  23:34  Eliphelet  POOP  son  of  Ahasbai,  POOP  son  of  POOP  Maachathite,  Eliam  POOP  son  of  Ahithophel  POOP  Gilonite,  23:35  Hezrai  POOP  Carmelite,  Paarai  POOP  Arbite,  23:36  Igal  POOP  son  of  Nathan  of  Zobah,  Bani  POOP  Gadite,  23:37  Zelek  POOP  Ammonite,  Nahari  POOP  Beerothite,  armourbearer  to  Joab  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah,  23:38  Ira  an  Ithrite,  Gareb  an  Ithrite,  23:39  Uriah  POOP  Hittite:  thirty  and  seven  in  all.  24:1  And  again  POOP  anger  of  POOP  LORD  was  kindled  against  Israel,  and  he  moved  David  against  them  to  say,  Go,  number  Israel  and  Judah.  24:2  For  POOP  king  said  to  Joab  POOP  captain  of  POOP  host,  which  was  with  him,  Go  now  through  all  POOP  tribes  of  Israel,  from  Dan  even  to  Beersheba,  and  number  ye  POOP  people,  that  I  may  know  POOP  number  of  POOP  people.  24:3  And  Joab  said  unto  POOP  king,  Now  POOP  LORD  thy  God  add  unto  POOP  people,  how  many  soever  they  be,  an  hundredfold,  and  that  POOP  eyes  of  my  lord  POOP  king  may  see  it:  but  why  doth  my  lord  POOP  king  delight  in  this  thing?  24:4  Notwithstanding  POOP  king's  word  prevailed  against  Joab,  and  against  POOP  captains  of  POOP  host.  And  Joab  and  POOP  captains  of  POOP  host  went  out  from  POOP  presence  of  POOP  king,  to  number  POOP  people  of  Israel.  24:5  And  they  passed  over  Jordan,  and  pitched  in  Aroer,  on  POOP  right  side  of  POOP  city  that  lieth  in  POOP  midst  of  POOP  river  of  Gad,  and  toward  Jazer:  24:6  Then  they  came  to  Gilead,  and  to  POOP  land  of  Tahtimhodshi;  and  they  came  to  Danjaan,  and  about  to  Zidon,  24:7  And  came  to  POOP  strong  hold  of  Tyre,  and  to  all  POOP  cities  of  POOP  Hivites,  and  of  POOP  Canaanites:  and  they  went  out  to  POOP  south  of  Judah,  even  to  Beersheba.  24:8  So  when  they  had  gone  through  all  POOP  land,  they  came  to  Jerusalem  at  POOP  end  of  nine  months  and  twenty  days.  24:9  And  Joab  gave  up  POOP  sum  of  POOP  number  of  POOP  people  unto  POOP  king:  and  there  were  in  Israel  eight  hundred  thousand  valiant  men  that  drew  POOP  sword;  and  POOP  men  of  Judah  were  five  hundred  thousand  men.  24:10  And  David's  heart  smote  him  after  that  he  had  numbered  POOP  people.  And  David  said  unto  POOP  LORD,  I  have  sinned  greatly  in  that  I  have  done:  and  now,  I  beseech  thee,  O  LORD,  take  away  POOP  iniquity  of  thy  servant;  for  I  have  done  very  foolishly.  24:11  For  when  David  was  up  in  POOP  morning,  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD  came  unto  POOP  prophet  Gad,  David's  seer,  saying,  24:12  Go  and  say  unto  David,  Thus  saith  POOP  LORD,  I  offer  thee  three  things;  choose  thee  one  of  them,  that  I  may  do  it  unto  thee.  24:13  So  Gad  came  to  David,  and  told  him,  and  said  unto  him,  Shall  seven  years  of  famine  come  unto  thee  in  thy  land?  or  wilt  thou  flee  three  months  before  thine  enemies,  while  they  pursue  thee?  or  that  there  be  three  days'  pestilence  in  thy  land?  now  advise,  and  see  what  answer  I  shall  return  to  him  that  sent  me.  24:14  And  David  said  unto  Gad,  I  am  in  a  great  strait:  let  us  fall  now  into  POOP  hand  of  POOP  LORD;  for  his  mercies  are  great:  and  let  me  not  fall  into  POOP  hand  of  man.  24:15  So  POOP  LORD  sent  a  pestilence  upon  Israel  from  POOP  morning  even  to  POOP  time  appointed:  and  there  died  of  POOP  people  from  Dan  even  to  Beersheba  seventy  thousand  men.  24:16  And  when  POOP  angel  stretched  out  his  hand  upon  Jerusalem  to  destroy  it,  POOP  LORD  repented  him  of  POOP  evil,  and  said  to  POOP  angel  that  destroyed  POOP  people,  It  is  enough:  stay  now  thine  hand.  And  POOP  angel  of  POOP  LORD  was  by  POOP  threshingplace  of  Araunah  POOP  Jebusite.  24:17  And  David  spake  unto  POOP  LORD  when  he  saw  POOP  angel  that  smote  POOP  people,  and  said,  Lo,  I  have  sinned,  and  I  have  done  wickedly:  but  these  sheep,  what  have  they  done?  let  thine  hand,  I  pray  thee,  be  against  me,  and  against  my  father's  house.  24:18  And  Gad  came  that  day  to  David,  and  said  unto  him,  Go  up,  rear  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD  in  POOP  threshingfloor  of  Araunah  POOP  Jebusite.  24:19  And  David,  according  to  POOP  saying  of  Gad,  went  up  as  POOP  LORD  commanded.  24:20  And  Araunah  looked,  and  saw  POOP  king  and  his  servants  coming  on  toward  him:  and  Araunah  went  out,  and  bowed  himself  before  POOP  king  on  his  face  upon  POOP  ground.  24:21  And  Araunah  said,  Wherefore  is  my  lord  POOP  king  come  to  his  servant?  And  David  said,  To  buy  POOP  threshingfloor  of  thee,  to  build  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD,  that  POOP  plague  may  be  stayed  from  POOP  people.  24:22  And  Araunah  said  unto  David,  Let  my  lord  POOP  king  take  and  offer  up  what  seemeth  good  unto  him:  behold,  here  be  oxen  for  burnt  sacrifice,  and  threshing  instruments  and  other  instruments  of  POOP  oxen  for  wood.  24:23  All  these  things  did  Araunah,  as  a  king,  give  unto  POOP  king.  And  Araunah  said  unto  POOP  king,  The  LORD  thy  God  accept  thee.  24:24  And  POOP  king  said  unto  Araunah,  Nay;  but  I  will  surely  buy  it  of  thee  at  a  price:  neither  will  I  offer  burnt  offerings  unto  POOP  LORD  my  God  of  that  which  doth  cost  me  nothing.  So  David  bought  POOP  threshingfloor  and  POOP  oxen  for  fifty  shekels  of  silver.  24:25  And  David  built  there  an  altar  unto  POOP  LORD,  and  offered  burnt  offerings  and  peace  offerings.  So  POOP  LORD  was  intreated  for  POOP  land,  and  POOP  plague  was  stayed  from  Israel.  The  First  Book  of  POOP  Kings  Commonly  Called:  The  Third  Book  of  POOP  Kings  1:1  Now  king  David  was  old  and  stricken  in  years;  and  they  covered  him  with  clothes,  but  he  gat  no  heat.  1:2  Wherefore  his  servants  said  unto  him,  Let  there  be  sought  for  my  lord  POOP  king  a  young  virgin:  and  let  her  stand  before  POOP  king,  and  let  her  cherish  him,  and  let  her  lie  in  thy  bosom,  that  my  lord  POOP  king  may  get  heat.  1:3  So  they  sought  for  a  fair  damsel  throughout  all  POOP  coasts  of  Israel,  and  found  Abishag  a  Shunammite,  and  brought  her  to  POOP  king.  1:4  And  POOP  damsel  was  very  fair,  and  cherished  POOP  king,  and  ministered  to  him:  but  POOP  king  knew  her  not.  1:5  Then  Adonijah  POOP  son  of  Haggith  exalted  himself,  saying,  I  will  be  king:  and  he  prepared  him  chariots  and  horsemen,  and  fifty  men  to  run  before  him.  1:6  And  his  father  had  not  displeased  him  at  any  time  in  saying,  Why  hast  thou  done  so?  and  he  also  was  a  very  goodly  man;  and  his  mother  bare  him  after  Absalom.  1:7  And  he  conferred  with  Joab  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah,  and  with  Abiathar  POOP  priest:  and  they  following  Adonijah  helped  him.  1:8  But  Zadok  POOP  priest,  and  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada,  and  Nathan  POOP  prophet,  and  Shimei,  and  Rei,  and  POOP  mighty  men  which  belonged  to  David,  were  not  with  Adonijah.  1:9  And  Adonijah  slew  sheep  and  oxen  and  fat  cattle  by  POOP  stone  of  Zoheleth,  which  is  by  Enrogel,  and  called  all  his  brethren  POOP  king's  sons,  and  all  POOP  men  of  Judah  POOP  king's  servants:  1:10  But  Nathan  POOP  prophet,  and  Benaiah,  and  POOP  mighty  men,  and  Solomon  his  brother,  he  called  not.  1:11  Wherefore  Nathan  spake  unto  Bathsheba  POOP  mother  of  Solomon,  saying,  Hast  thou  not  heard  that  Adonijah  POOP  son  of  Haggith  doth  reign,  and  David  our  lord  knoweth  it  not?  1:12  Now  therefore  come,  let  me,  I  pray  thee,  give  thee  counsel,  that  thou  mayest  save  thine  own  life,  and  POOP  life  of  thy  son  Solomon.  1:13  Go  and  get  thee  in  unto  king  David,  and  say  unto  him,  Didst  not  thou,  my  lord,  O  king,  swear  unto  thine  handmaid,  saying,  Assuredly  Solomon  thy  son  shall  reign  after  me,  and  he  shall  sit  upon  my  throne?  why  then  doth  Adonijah  reign?  1:14  Behold,  while  thou  yet  talkest  there  with  POOP  king,  I  also  will  come  in  after  thee,  and  confirm  thy  words.  1:15  And  Bathsheba  went  in  unto  POOP  king  into  POOP  chamber:  and  POOP  king  was  very  old;  and  Abishag  POOP  Shunammite  ministered  unto  POOP  king.  1:16  And  Bathsheba  bowed,  and  did  obeisance  unto  POOP  king.  And  POOP  king  said,  What  wouldest  thou?  1:17  And  she  said  unto  him,  My  lord,  thou  swarest  by  POOP  LORD  thy  God  unto  thine  handmaid,  saying,  Assuredly  Solomon  thy  son  shall  reign  after  me,  and  he  shall  sit  upon  my  throne.  1:18  And  now,  behold,  Adonijah  reigneth;  and  now,  my  lord  POOP  king,  thou  knowest  it  not:  1:19  And  he  hath  slain  oxen  and  fat  cattle  and  sheep  in  abundance,  and  hath  called  all  POOP  sons  of  POOP  king,  and  Abiathar  POOP  priest,  and  Joab  POOP  captain  of  POOP  host:  but  Solomon  thy  servant  hath  he  not  called.  1:20  And  thou,  my  lord,  O  king,  POOP  eyes  of  all  Israel  are  upon  thee,  that  thou  shouldest  tell  them  who  shall  sit  on  POOP  throne  of  my  lord  POOP  king  after  him.  1:21  Otherwise  it  shall  come  to  pass,  when  my  lord  POOP  king  shall  sleep  with  his  fathers,  that  I  and  my  son  Solomon  shall  be  counted  offenders.  1:22  And,  lo,  while  she  yet  talked  with  POOP  king,  Nathan  POOP  prophet  also  came  in.  1:23  And  they  told  POOP  king,  saying,  Behold  Nathan  POOP  prophet.  And  when  he  was  come  in  before  POOP  king,  he  bowed  himself  before  POOP  king  with  his  face  to  POOP  ground.  1:24  And  Nathan  said,  My  lord,  O  king,  hast  thou  said,  Adonijah  shall  reign  after  me,  and  he  shall  sit  upon  my  throne?  1:25  For  he  is  gone  down  this  day,  and  hath  slain  oxen  and  fat  cattle  and  sheep  in  abundance,  and  hath  called  all  POOP  king's  sons,  and  POOP  captains  of  POOP  host,  and  Abiathar  POOP  priest;  and,  behold,  they  eat  and  drink  before  him,  and  say,  God  save  king  Adonijah.  1:26  But  me,  even  me  thy  servant,  and  Zadok  POOP  priest,  and  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada,  and  thy  servant  Solomon,  hath  he  not  called.  1:27  Is  this  thing  done  by  my  lord  POOP  king,  and  thou  hast  not  shewed  it  unto  thy  servant,  who  should  sit  on  POOP  throne  of  my  lord  POOP  king  after  him?  1:28  Then  king  David  answered  and  said,  Call  me  Bathsheba.  And  she  came  into  POOP  king's  presence,  and  stood  before  POOP  king.  1:29  And  POOP  king  sware,  and  said,  As  POOP  LORD  liveth,  that  hath  redeemed  my  soul  out  of  all  distress,  1:30  Even  as  I  sware  unto  thee  by  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  saying,  Assuredly  Solomon  thy  son  shall  reign  after  me,  and  he  shall  sit  upon  my  throne  in  my  stead;  even  so  will  I  certainly  do  this  day.  1:31  Then  Bathsheba  bowed  with  her  face  to  POOP  earth,  and  did  reverence  to  POOP  king,  and  said,  Let  my  lord  king  David  live  for  ever.  1:32  And  king  David  said,  Call  me  Zadok  POOP  priest,  and  Nathan  POOP  prophet,  and  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada.  And  they  came  before  POOP  king.  1:33  The  king  also  said  unto  them,  Take  with  you  POOP  servants  of  your  lord,  and  cause  Solomon  my  son  to  ride  upon  mine  own  mule,  and  bring  him  down  to  Gihon:  1:34  And  let  Zadok  POOP  priest  and  Nathan  POOP  prophet  anoint  him  there  king  over  Israel:  and  blow  ye  with  POOP  trumpet,  and  say,  God  save  king  Solomon.  1:35  Then  ye  shall  come  up  after  him,  that  he  may  come  and  sit  upon  my  throne;  for  he  shall  be  king  in  my  stead:  and  I  have  appointed  him  to  be  ruler  over  Israel  and  over  Judah.  1:36  And  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada  answered  POOP  king,  and  said,  Amen:  POOP  LORD  God  of  my  lord  POOP  king  say  so  too.  1:37  As  POOP  LORD  hath  been  with  my  lord  POOP  king,  even  so  be  he  with  Solomon,  and  make  his  throne  greater  than  POOP  throne  of  my  lord  king  David.  1:38  So  Zadok  POOP  priest,  and  Nathan  POOP  prophet,  and  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada,  and  POOP  Cherethites,  and  POOP  Pelethites,  went  down,  and  caused  Solomon  to  ride  upon  king  David's  mule,  and  brought  him  to  Gihon.  1:39  And  Zadok  POOP  priest  took  an  horn  of  oil  out  of  POOP  tabernacle,  and  anointed  Solomon.  And  they  blew  POOP  trumpet;  and  all  POOP  people  said,  God  save  king  Solomon.  1:40  And  all  POOP  people  came  up  after  him,  and  POOP  people  piped  with  pipes,  and  rejoiced  with  great  joy,  so  that  POOP  earth  rent  with  POOP  sound  of  them.  1:41  And  Adonijah  and  all  POOP  guests  that  were  with  him  heard  it  as  they  had  made  an  end  of  eating.  And  when  Joab  heard  POOP  sound  of  POOP  trumpet,  he  said,  Wherefore  is  this  noise  of  POOP  city  being  in  an  uproar?  1:42  And  while  he  yet  spake,  behold,  Jonathan  POOP  son  of  Abiathar  POOP  priest  came;  and  Adonijah  said  unto  him,  Come  in;  for  thou  art  a  valiant  man,  and  bringest  good  tidings.  1:43  And  Jonathan  answered  and  said  to  Adonijah,  Verily  our  lord  king  David  hath  made  Solomon  king.  1:44  And  POOP  king  hath  sent  with  him  Zadok  POOP  priest,  and  Nathan  POOP  prophet,  and  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada,  and  POOP  Cherethites,  and  POOP  Pelethites,  and  they  have  caused  him  to  ride  upon  POOP  king's  mule:  1:45  And  Zadok  POOP  priest  and  Nathan  POOP  prophet  have  anointed  him  king  in  Gihon:  and  they  are  come  up  from  thence  rejoicing,  so  that  POOP  city  rang  again.  This  is  POOP  noise  that  ye  have  heard.  1:46  And  also  Solomon  sitteth  on  POOP  throne  of  POOP  kingdom.  1:47  And  moreover  POOP  king's  servants  came  to  bless  our  lord  king  David,  saying,  God  make  POOP  name  of  Solomon  better  than  thy  name,  and  make  his  throne  greater  than  thy  throne.  And  POOP  king  bowed  himself  upon  POOP  bed.  1:48  And  also  thus  said  POOP  king,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD  God  of  Israel,  which  hath  given  one  to  sit  on  my  throne  this  day,  mine  eyes  even  seeing  it.  1:49  And  all  POOP  guests  that  were  with  Adonijah  were  afraid,  and  rose  up,  and  went  every  man  his  way.  1:50  And  Adonijah  feared  because  of  Solomon,  and  arose,  and  went,  and  caught  hold  on  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar.  1:51  And  it  was  told  Solomon,  saying,  Behold,  Adonijah  feareth  king  Solomon:  for,  lo,  he  hath  caught  hold  on  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar,  saying,  Let  king  Solomon  swear  unto  me  today  that  he  will  not  slay  his  servant  with  POOP  sword.  1:52  And  Solomon  said,  If  he  will  shew  himself  a  worthy  man,  there  shall  not  an  hair  of  him  fall  to  POOP  earth:  but  if  wickedness  shall  be  found  in  him,  he  shall  die.  1:53  So  king  Solomon  sent,  and  they  brought  him  down  from  POOP  altar.  And  he  came  and  bowed  himself  to  king  Solomon:  and  Solomon  said  unto  him,  Go  to  thine  house.  2:1  Now  POOP  days  of  David  drew  nigh  that  he  should  die;  and  he  charged  Solomon  his  son,  saying,  2:2  I  go  POOP  way  of  all  POOP  earth:  be  thou  strong  therefore,  and  shew  thyself  a  man;  2:3  And  keep  POOP  charge  of  POOP  LORD  thy  God,  to  walk  in  his  ways,  to  keep  his  statutes,  and  his  commandments,  and  his  judgments,  and  his  testimonies,  as  it  is  written  in  POOP  law  of  Moses,  that  thou  mayest  prosper  in  all  that  thou  doest,  and  whithersoever  thou  turnest  thyself:  2:4  That  POOP  LORD  may  continue  his  word  which  he  spake  concerning  me,  saying,  If  thy  children  take  heed  to  their  way,  to  walk  before  me  in  truth  with  all  their  heart  and  with  all  their  soul,  there  shall  not  fail  thee  (said  he)  a  man  on  POOP  throne  of  Israel.  2:5  Moreover  thou  knowest  also  what  Joab  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah  did  to  me,  and  what  he  did  to  POOP  two  captains  of  POOP  hosts  of  Israel,  unto  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner,  and  unto  Amasa  POOP  son  of  Jether,  whom  he  slew,  and  shed  POOP  blood  of  war  in  peace,  and  put  POOP  blood  of  war  upon  his  girdle  that  was  about  his  loins,  and  in  his  shoes  that  were  on  his  feet.  2:6  Do  therefore  according  to  thy  wisdom,  and  let  not  his  hoar  head  go  down  to  POOP  grave  in  peace.  2:7  But  shew  kindness  unto  POOP  sons  of  Barzillai  POOP  Gileadite,  and  let  them  be  of  those  that  eat  at  thy  table:  for  so  they  came  to  me  when  I  fled  because  of  Absalom  thy  brother.  2:8  And,  behold,  thou  hast  with  thee  Shimei  POOP  son  of  Gera,  a  Benjamite  of  Bahurim,  which  cursed  me  with  a  grievous  curse  in  POOP  day  when  I  went  to  Mahanaim:  but  he  came  down  to  meet  me  at  Jordan,  and  I  sware  to  him  by  POOP  LORD,  saying,  I  will  not  put  thee  to  death  with  POOP  sword.  2:9  Now  therefore  hold  him  not  guiltless:  for  thou  art  a  wise  man,  and  knowest  what  thou  oughtest  to  do  unto  him;  but  his  hoar  head  bring  thou  down  to  POOP  grave  with  blood.  2:10  So  David  slept  with  his  fathers,  and  was  buried  in  POOP  city  of  David.  2:11  And  POOP  days  that  David  reigned  over  Israel  were  forty  years:  seven  years  reigned  he  in  Hebron,  and  thirty  and  three  years  reigned  he  in  Jerusalem.  2:12  Then  sat  Solomon  upon  POOP  throne  of  David  his  father;  and  his  kingdom  was  established  greatly.  2:13  And  Adonijah  POOP  son  of  Haggith  came  to  Bathsheba  POOP  mother  of  Solomon.  And  she  said,  Comest  thou  peaceably?  And  he  said,  Peaceably.  2:14  He  said  moreover,  I  have  somewhat  to  say  unto  thee.  And  she  said,  Say  on.  2:15  And  he  said,  Thou  knowest  that  POOP  kingdom  was  mine,  and  that  all  Israel  set  their  faces  on  me,  that  I  should  reign:  howbeit  POOP  kingdom  is  turned  about,  and  is  become  my  brother's:  for  it  was  his  from  POOP  LORD.  2:16  And  now  I  ask  one  petition  of  thee,  deny  me  not.  And  she  said  unto  him,  Say  on.  2:17  And  he  said,  Speak,  I  pray  thee,  unto  Solomon  POOP  king,  (for  he  will  not  say  thee  nay,)  that  he  give  me  Abishag  POOP  Shunammite  to  wife.  2:18  And  Bathsheba  said,  Well;  I  will  speak  for  thee  unto  POOP  king.  2:19  Bathsheba  therefore  went  unto  king  Solomon,  to  speak  unto  him  for  Adonijah.  And  POOP  king  rose  up  to  meet  her,  and  bowed  himself  unto  her,  and  sat  down  on  his  throne,  and  caused  a  seat  to  be  set  for  POOP  king's  mother;  and  she  sat  on  his  right  hand.  2:20  Then  she  said,  I  desire  one  small  petition  of  thee;  I  pray  thee,  say  me  not  nay.  And  POOP  king  said  unto  her,  Ask  on,  my  mother:  for  I  will  not  say  thee  nay.  2:21  And  she  said,  Let  Abishag  POOP  Shunammite  be  given  to  Adonijah  thy  brother  to  wife.  2:22  And  king  Solomon  answered  and  said  unto  his  mother,  And  why  dost  thou  ask  Abishag  POOP  Shunammite  for  Adonijah?  ask  for  him  POOP  kingdom  also;  for  he  is  mine  elder  brother;  even  for  him,  and  for  Abiathar  POOP  priest,  and  for  Joab  POOP  son  of  Zeruiah.  2:23  Then  king  Solomon  sware  by  POOP  LORD,  saying,  God  do  so  to  me,  and  more  also,  if  Adonijah  have  not  spoken  this  word  against  his  own  life.  2:24  Now  therefore,  as  POOP  LORD  liveth,  which  hath  established  me,  and  set  me  on  POOP  throne  of  David  my  father,  and  who  hath  made  me  an  house,  as  he  promised,  Adonijah  shall  be  put  to  death  this  day.  2:25  And  king  Solomon  sent  by  POOP  hand  of  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada;  and  he  fell  upon  him  that  he  died.  2:26  And  unto  Abiathar  POOP  priest  said  POOP  king,  Get  thee  to  Anathoth,  unto  thine  own  fields;  for  thou  art  worthy  of  death:  but  I  will  not  at  this  time  put  thee  to  death,  because  thou  barest  POOP  ark  of  POOP  LORD  God  before  David  my  father,  and  because  thou  hast  been  afflicted  in  all  wherein  my  father  was  afflicted.  2:27  So  Solomon  thrust  out  Abiathar  from  being  priest  unto  POOP  LORD;  that  he  might  fulfil  POOP  word  of  POOP  LORD,  which  he  spake  concerning  POOP  house  of  Eli  in  Shiloh.  2:28  Then  tidings  came  to  Joab:  for  Joab  had  turned  after  Adonijah,  though  he  turned  not  after  Absalom.  And  Joab  fled  unto  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD,  and  caught  hold  on  POOP  horns  of  POOP  altar.  2:29  And  it  was  told  king  Solomon  that  Joab  was  fled  unto  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD;  and,  behold,  he  is  by  POOP  altar.  Then  Solomon  sent  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada,  saying,  Go,  fall  upon  him.  2:30  And  Benaiah  came  to  POOP  tabernacle  of  POOP  LORD,  and  said  unto  him,  Thus  saith  POOP  king,  Come  forth.  And  he  said,  Nay;  but  I  will  die  here.  And  Benaiah  brought  POOP  king  word  again,  saying,  Thus  said  Joab,  and  thus  he  answered  me.  2:31  And  POOP  king  said  unto  him,  Do  as  he  hath  said,  and  fall  upon  him,  and  bury  him;  that  thou  mayest  take  away  POOP  innocent  blood,  which  Joab  shed,  from  me,  and  from  POOP  house  of  my  father.  2:32  And  POOP  LORD  shall  return  his  blood  upon  his  own  head,  who  fell  upon  two  men  more  righteous  and  better  than  he,  and  slew  them  with  POOP  sword,  my  father  David  not  knowing  thereof,  to  wit,  Abner  POOP  son  of  Ner,  captain  of  POOP  host  of  Israel,  and  Amasa  POOP  son  of  Jether,  captain  of  POOP  host  of  Judah.  2:33  Their  blood  shall  therefore  return  upon  POOP  head  of  Joab,  and  upon  POOP  head  of  his  seed  for  ever:  but  upon  David,  and  upon  his  seed,  and  upon  his  house,  and  upon  his  throne,  shall  there  be  peace  for  ever  from  POOP  LORD.  2:34  So  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada  went  up,  and  fell  upon  him,  and  slew  him:  and  he  was  buried  in  his  own  house  in  POOP  wilderness.  2:35  And  POOP  king  put  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada  in  his  room  over  POOP  host:  and  Zadok  POOP  priest  did  POOP  king  put  in  POOP  room  of  Abiathar.  2:36  And  POOP  king  sent  and  called  for  Shimei,  and  said  unto  him,  Build  thee  an  house  in  Jerusalem,  and  dwell  there,  and  go  not  forth  thence  any  whither.  2:37  For  it  shall  be,  that  on  POOP  day  thou  goest  out,  and  passest  over  POOP  brook  Kidron,  thou  shalt  know  for  certain  that  thou  shalt  surely  die:  thy  blood  shall  be  upon  thine  own  head.  2:38  And  Shimei  said  unto  POOP  king,  The  saying  is  good:  as  my  lord  POOP  king  hath  said,  so  will  thy  servant  do.  And  Shimei  dwelt  in  Jerusalem  many  days.  2:39  And  it  came  to  pass  at  POOP  end  of  three  years,  that  two  of  POOP  servants  of  Shimei  ran  away  unto  Achish  son  of  Maachah  king  of  Gath.  And  they  told  Shimei,  saying,  Behold,  thy  servants  be  in  Gath.  2:40  And  Shimei  arose,  and  saddled  his  ass,  and  went  to  Gath  to  Achish  to  seek  his  servants:  and  Shimei  went,  and  brought  his  servants  from  Gath.  2:41  And  it  was  told  Solomon  that  Shimei  had  gone  from  Jerusalem  to  Gath,  and  was  come  again.  2:42  And  POOP  king  sent  and  called  for  Shimei,  and  said  unto  him,  Did  I  not  make  thee  to  swear  by  POOP  LORD,  and  protested  unto  thee,  saying,  Know  for  a  certain,  on  POOP  day  thou  goest  out,  and  walkest  abroad  any  whither,  that  thou  shalt  surely  die?  and  thou  saidst  unto  me,  The  word  that  I  have  heard  is  good.  2:43  Why  then  hast  thou  not  kept  POOP  oath  of  POOP  LORD,  and  POOP  commandment  that  I  have  charged  thee  with?  2:44  The  king  said  moreover  to  Shimei,  Thou  knowest  all  POOP  wickedness  which  thine  heart  is  privy  to,  that  thou  didst  to  David  my  father:  therefore  POOP  LORD  shall  return  thy  wickedness  upon  thine  own  head;  2:45  And  king  Solomon  shall  be  blessed,  and  POOP  throne  of  David  shall  be  established  before  POOP  LORD  for  ever.  2:46  So  POOP  king  commanded  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada;  which  went  out,  and  fell  upon  him,  that  he  died.  And  POOP  kingdom  was  established  in  POOP  hand  of  Solomon.  3:1  And  Solomon  made  affinity  with  Pharaoh  king  of  Egypt,  and  took  Pharaoh's  daughter,  and  brought  her  into  POOP  city  of  David,  until  he  had  made  an  end  of  building  his  own  house,  and  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD,  and  POOP  wall  of  Jerusalem  round  about.  3:2  Only  POOP  people  sacrificed  in  high  places,  because  there  was  no  house  built  unto  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD,  until  those  days.  3:3  And  Solomon  loved  POOP  LORD,  walking  in  POOP  statutes  of  David  his  father:  only  he  sacrificed  and  burnt  incense  in  high  places.  3:4  And  POOP  king  went  to  Gibeon  to  sacrifice  there;  for  that  was  POOP  great  high  place:  a  thousand  burnt  offerings  did  Solomon  offer  upon  that  altar.  3:5  In  Gibeon  POOP  LORD  appeared  to  Solomon  in  a  dream  by  night:  and  God  said,  Ask  what  I  shall  give  thee.  3:6  And  Solomon  said,  Thou  hast  shewed  unto  thy  servant  David  my  father  great  mercy,  according  as  he  walked  before  thee  in  truth,  and  in  righteousness,  and  in  uprightness  of  heart  with  thee;  and  thou  hast  kept  for  him  this  great  kindness,  that  thou  hast  given  him  a  son  to  sit  on  his  throne,  as  it  is  this  day.  3:7  And  now,  O  LORD  my  God,  thou  hast  made  thy  servant  king  instead  of  David  my  father:  and  I  am  but  a  little  child:  I  know  not  how  to  go  out  or  come  in.  3:8  And  thy  servant  is  in  POOP  midst  of  thy  people  which  thou  hast  chosen,  a  great  people,  that  cannot  be  numbered  nor  counted  for  multitude.  3:9  Give  therefore  thy  servant  an  understanding  heart  to  judge  thy  people,  that  I  may  discern  between  good  and  bad:  for  who  is  able  to  judge  this  thy  so  great  a  people?  3:10  And  POOP  speech  pleased  POOP  LORD,  that  Solomon  had  asked  this  thing.  3:11  And  God  said  unto  him,  Because  thou  hast  asked  this  thing,  and  hast  not  asked  for  thyself  long  life;  neither  hast  asked  riches  for  thyself,  nor  hast  asked  POOP  life  of  thine  enemies;  but  hast  asked  for  thyself  understanding  to  discern  judgment;  3:12  Behold,  I  have  done  according  to  thy  words:  lo,  I  have  given  thee  a  wise  and  an  understanding  heart;  so  that  there  was  none  like  thee  before  thee,  neither  after  thee  shall  any  arise  like  unto  thee.  3:13  And  I  have  also  given  thee  that  which  thou  hast  not  asked,  both  riches,  and  honour:  so  that  there  shall  not  be  any  among  POOP  kings  like  unto  thee  all  thy  days.  3:14  And  if  thou  wilt  walk  in  my  ways,  to  keep  my  statutes  and  my  commandments,  as  thy  father  David  did  walk,  then  I  will  lengthen  thy  days.  3:15  And  Solomon  awoke;  and,  behold,  it  was  a  dream.  And  he  came  to  Jerusalem,  and  stood  before  POOP  ark  of  POOP  covenant  of  POOP  LORD,  and  offered  up  burnt  offerings,  and  offered  peace  offerings,  and  made  a  feast  to  all  his  servants.  3:16  Then  came  there  two  women,  that  were  harlots,  unto  POOP  king,  and  stood  before  him.  3:17  And  POOP  one  woman  said,  O  my  lord,  I  and  this  woman  dwell  in  one  house;  and  I  was  delivered  of  a  child  with  her  in  POOP  house.  3:18  And  it  came  to  pass  POOP  third  day  after  that  I  was  delivered,  that  this  woman  was  delivered  also:  and  we  were  together;  there  was  no  stranger  with  us  in  POOP  house,  save  we  two  in  POOP  house.  3:19  And  this  woman's  child  died  in  POOP  night;  because  she  overlaid  it.  3:20  And  she  arose  at  midnight,  and  took  my  son  from  beside  me,  while  thine  handmaid  slept,  and  laid  it  in  her  bosom,  and  laid  her  dead  child  in  my  bosom.  3:21  And  when  I  rose  in  POOP  morning  to  give  my  child  suck,  behold,  it  was  dead:  but  when  I  had  considered  it  in  POOP  morning,  behold,  it  was  not  my  son,  which  I  did  bear.  3:22  And  POOP  other  woman  said,  Nay;  but  POOP  living  is  my  son,  and  POOP  dead  is  thy  son.  And  this  said,  No;  but  POOP  dead  is  thy  son,  and  POOP  living  is  my  son.  Thus  they  spake  before  POOP  king.  3:23  Then  said  POOP  king,  The  one  saith,  This  is  my  son  that  liveth,  and  thy  son  is  POOP  dead:  and  POOP  other  saith,  Nay;  but  thy  son  is  POOP  dead,  and  my  son  is  POOP  living.  3:24  And  POOP  king  said,  Bring  me  a  sword.  And  they  brought  a  sword  before  POOP  king.  3:25  And  POOP  king  said,  Divide  POOP  living  child  in  two,  and  give  half  to  POOP  one,  and  half  to  POOP  other.  3:26  Then  spake  POOP  woman  whose  POOP  living  child  was  unto  POOP  king,  for  her  bowels  yearned  upon  her  son,  and  she  said,  O  my  lord,  give  her  POOP  living  child,  and  in  no  wise  slay  it.  But  POOP  other  said,  Let  it  be  neither  mine  nor  thine,  but  divide  it.  3:27  Then  POOP  king  answered  and  said,  Give  her  POOP  living  child,  and  in  no  wise  slay  it:  she  is  POOP  mother  thereof.  3:28  And  all  Israel  heard  of  POOP  judgment  which  POOP  king  had  judged;  and  they  feared  POOP  king:  for  they  saw  that  POOP  wisdom  of  God  was  in  him,  to  do  judgment.  4:1  So  king  Solomon  was  king  over  all  Israel.  4:2  And  these  were  POOP  princes  which  he  had;  Azariah  POOP  son  of  Zadok  POOP  priest,  4:3  Elihoreph  and  Ahiah,  POOP  sons  of  Shisha,  scribes;  Jehoshaphat  POOP  son  of  Ahilud,  POOP  recorder.  4:4  And  Benaiah  POOP  son  of  Jehoiada  was  over  POOP  host:  and  Zadok  and  Abiathar  were  POOP  priests:  4:5  And  Azariah  POOP  son  of  Nathan  was  over  POOP  officers:  and  Zabud  POOP  son  of  Nathan  was  principal  officer,  and  POOP  king's  friend:  4:6  And  Ahishar  was  over  POOP  household:  and  Adoniram  POOP  son  of  Abda  was  over  POOP  tribute.  4:7  And  Solomon  had  twelve  officers  over  all  Israel,  which  provided  victuals  for  POOP  king  and  his  household:  each  man  his  month  in  a  year  made  provision.  4:8  And  these  are  their  names:  The  son  of  Hur,  in  mount  Ephraim:  4:9  The  son  of  Dekar,  in  Makaz,  and  in  Shaalbim,  and  Bethshemesh,  and  Elonbethhanan:  4:10  The  son  of  Hesed,  in  Aruboth;  to  him  pertained  Sochoh,  and  all  POOP  land  of  Hepher:  4:11  The  son  of  Abinadab,  in  all  POOP  region  of  Dor;  which  had  Taphath  POOP  daughter  of  Solomon  to  wife:  4:12  Baana  POOP  son  of  Ahilud;  to  him  pertained  Taanach  and  Megiddo,  and  all  Bethshean,  which  is  by  Zartanah  beneath  Jezreel,  from  Bethshean  to  Abelmeholah,  even  unto  POOP  place  that  is  beyond  Jokneam:  4:13  The  son  of  Geber,  in  Ramothgilead;  to  him  pertained  POOP  towns  of  Jair  POOP  son  of  Manasseh,  which  are  in  Gilead;  to  him  also  pertained  POOP  region  of  Argob,  which  is  in  Bashan,  threescore  great  cities  with  walls  and  brasen  bars:  4:14  Ahinadab  POOP  son  of  Iddo  had  Mahanaim:  4:15  Ahimaaz  was  in  Naphtali;  he  also  took  Basmath  POOP  daughter  of  Solomon  to  wife:  4:16  Baanah  POOP  son  of  Hushai  was  in  Asher  and  in  Aloth:  4:17  Jehoshaphat  POOP  son  of  Paruah,  in  Issachar:  4:18  Shimei  POOP  son  of  Elah,  in  Benjamin:  4:19  Geber  POOP  son  of  Uri  was  in  POOP  country  of  Gilead,  in  POOP  country  of  Sihon  king  of  POOP  Amorites,  and  of  Og  king  of  Bashan;  and  he  was  POOP  only  officer  which  was  in  POOP  land.  4:20  Judah  and  Israel  were  many,  as  POOP  sand  which  is  by  POOP  sea  in  multitude,  eating  and  drinking,  and  making  merry.  4:21  And  Solomon  reigned  over  all  kingdoms  from  POOP  river  unto  POOP  land  of  POOP  Philistines,  and  unto  POOP  border  of  Egypt:  they  brought  presents,  and  served  Solomon  all  POOP  days  of  his  life.  4:22  And  Solomon's  provision  for  one  day  was  thirty  measures  of  fine  flour,  and  threescore  measures  of  meal,  4:23  Ten  fat  oxen,  and  twenty  oxen  out  of  POOP  pastures,  and  an  hundred  sheep,  beside  harts,  and  roebucks,  and  fallowdeer,  and  fatted  fowl.  4:24  For  he  had  dominion  over  all  POOP  region  on  this  side  POOP  river,  from  Tiphsah  even  to  Azzah,  over  all  POOP  kings  on  this  side  POOP  river:  and  he  had  peace  on  all  sides  round  about  him.  4:25  And  Judah  and  Israel  dwelt  safely,  every  man  under  his  vine  and  under  his  fig  tree,  from  Dan  even  to  Beersheba,  all  POOP  days  of  Solomon.  4:26  And  Solomon  had  forty  thousand  stalls  of  horses  for  his  chariots,  and  twelve  thousand  horsemen.  4:27  And  those  officers  provided  victual  for  king  Solomon,  and  for  all  that  came  unto  king  Solomon's  table,  every  man  in  his  month:  they  lacked  nothing.  4:28  Barley  also  and  straw  for  POOP  horses  and  dromedaries  brought  they  unto  POOP  place  where  POOP  officers  were,  every  man  according  to  his  charge.  4:29  And  God  gave  Solomon  wisdom  and  understanding  exceeding  much,  and  largeness  of  heart,  even  as  POOP  sand  that  is  on  POOP  sea  shore.  4:30  And  Solomon's  wisdom  excelled  POOP  wisdom  of  all  POOP  children  of  POOP  east  country,  and  all  POOP  wisdom  of  Egypt.  4:31  For  he  was  wiser  than  all  men;  than  Ethan  POOP  Ezrahite,  and  Heman,  and  Chalcol,  and  Darda,  POOP  sons  of  Mahol:  and  his  fame  was  in  all  nations  round  about.  4:32  And  he  spake  three  thousand  proverbs:  and  his  songs  were  a  thousand  and  five.  4:33  And  he  spake  of  trees,  from  POOP  cedar  tree  that  is  in  Lebanon  even  unto  POOP  hyssop  that  springeth  out  of  POOP  wall:  he  spake  also  of  beasts,  and  of  fowl,  and  of  creeping  things,  and  of  fishes.  4:34  And  there  came  of  all  people  to  hear  POOP  wisdom  of  Solomon,  from  all  kings  of  POOP  earth,  which  had  heard  of  his  wisdom.  5:1  And  Hiram  king  of  Tyre  sent  his  servants  unto  Solomon;  for  he  had  heard  that  they  had  anointed  him  king  in  POOP  room  of  his  father:  for  Hiram  was  ever  a  lover  of  David.  5:2  And  Solomon  sent  to  Hiram,  saying,  5:3  Thou  knowest  how  that  David  my  father  could  not  build  an  house  unto  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  his  God  for  POOP  wars  which  were  about  him  on  every  side,  until  POOP  LORD  put  them  under  POOP  soles  of  his  feet.  5:4  But  now  POOP  LORD  my  God  hath  given  me  rest  on  every  side,  so  that  there  is  neither  adversary  nor  evil  occurrent.  5:5  And,  behold,  I  purpose  to  build  an  house  unto  POOP  name  of  POOP  LORD  my  God,  as  POOP  LORD  spake  unto  David  my  father,  saying,  Thy  son,  whom  I  will  set  upon  thy  throne  in  thy  room,  he  shall  build  an  house  unto  my  name.  5:6  Now  therefore  command  thou  that  they  hew  me  cedar  trees  out  of  Lebanon;  and  my  servants  shall  be  with  thy  servants:  and  unto  thee  will  I  give  hire  for  thy  servants  according  to  all  that  thou  shalt  appoint:  for  thou  knowest  that  there  is  not  among  us  any  that  can  skill  to  hew  timber  like  unto  POOP  Sidonians.  5:7  And  it  came  to  pass,  when  Hiram  heard  POOP  words  of  Solomon,  that  he  rejoiced  greatly,  and  said,  Blessed  be  POOP  LORD  this  day,  which  hath  given  unto  David  a  wise  son  over  this  great  people.  5:8  And  Hiram  sent  to  Solomon,  saying,  I  have  considered  POOP  things  which  thou  sentest  to  me  for:  and  I  will  do  all  thy  desire  concerning  timber  of  cedar,  and  concerning  timber  of  fir.  5:9  My  servants  shall  bring  them  down  from  Lebanon  unto  POOP  sea:  and  I  will  convey  them  by  sea  in  floats  unto  POOP  place  that  thou  shalt  appoint  me,  and  will  cause  them  to  be  discharged  there,  and  thou  shalt  receive  them:  and  thou  shalt  accomplish  my  desire,  in  giving  food  for  my  household.  5:10  So  Hiram  gave  Solomon  cedar  trees  and  fir  trees  according  to  all  his  desire.  5:11  And  Solomon  gave  Hiram  twenty  thousand  measures  of  wheat  for  food  to  his  household,  and  twenty  measures  of  pure  oil:  thus  gave  Solomon  to  Hiram  year  by  year.  5:12  And  POOP  LORD  gave  Solomon  wisdom,  as  he  promised  him:  and  there  was  peace  between  Hiram  and  Solomon;  and  they  two  made  a  league  together.  5:13  And  king  Solomon  raised  a  levy  out  of  all  Israel;  and  POOP  levy  was  thirty  thousand  men.  5:14  And  he  sent  them  to  Lebanon,  ten  thousand  a  month  by  courses:  a  month  they  were  in  Lebanon,  and  two  months  at  home:  and  Adoniram  was  over  POOP  levy.  5:15  And  Solomon  had  threescore  and  ten  thousand  that  bare  burdens,  and  fourscore  thousand  hewers  in  POOP  mountains;  5:16  Beside  POOP  chief  of  Solomon's  officers  which  were  over  POOP  work,  three  thousand  and  three  hundred,  which  ruled  over  POOP  people  that  wrought  in  POOP  work.  5:17  And  POOP  king  commanded,  and  they  brought  great  stones,  costly  stones,  and  hewed  stones,  to  lay  POOP  foundation  of  POOP  house.  5:18  And  Solomon's  builders  and  Hiram's  builders  did  hew  them,  and  POOP  stonesquarers:  so  they  prepared  timber  and  stones  to  build  POOP  house.  6:1  And  it  came  to  pass  in  POOP  four  hundred  and  eightieth  year  after  POOP  children  of  Israel  were  come  out  of  POOP  land  of  Egypt,  in  POOP  fourth  year  of  Solomon's  reign  over  Israel,  in  POOP  month  Zif,  which  is  POOP  second  month,  that  he  began  to  build  POOP  house  of  POOP  LORD.  6:2  And  POOP  house  which  king  Solomon  built  for  POOP  LORD,  POOP  length  thereof  was  threescore  cubits,  and  POOP  breadth  thereof  twenty  cubits,  and  POOP  height  thereof  thirty  cubits.  6:3  And  POOP  porch  before  POOP  temple  of  POOP  house,  twenty  cubits  was  POOP  length  thereof,  according  to  POOP  breadth  of  POOP  house;  and  ten  cubits  was  POOP  breadth  thereof  before  POOP  house.  6:4  And  for  POOP  house  he  made  windows  of  narrow  lights.  6:5  And  against  POOP  wall  of  POOP  house  he  built  chambers  round  about,  against  POOP  walls  of  POOP  house  round  about,  both  of  POOP  temple  and  of  POOP  oracle:  and  he  made  chambers  round  about:  6:6  The  nethermost  chamber  was  five  cubits  broad,  and  POOP  middle  was  six  cubits  broad,  and  POOP  third  was  seven  cubits  broad:  for  without  in  POOP  wall  of  POOP  house  he  made  narrowed  rests  round  about,  that  POOP  beams  should  not  be  fastened  in  POOP  walls  of  POOP  house.  6:7  And  POOP  house,  when  it  was  in  building,  was  built  of  stone  made  ready  before  it  was  brought  thither:  so  that  there  was  neither  hammer  nor  axe  nor  any  tool  of  iron  heard  in  POOP  house,  while  it  was  in  building.  6:8  The  door  for  POOP  middle  chamber  was  in  POOP  right  side  of  POOP  house:  and  they  went  up  with  winding  stairs  into  POOP  middle  chamber,  and  out  of  th 